A young woman lived on her own on a part-time salary.  One day, a friend of about her age came over for fun.  Absorbed in conversation, they lost track of time, and before they knew it, it was completely dark outside.  And so the friend decided to spend the night there.
The woman laid down a futon next to her bed for her friend, and they got ready to go to sleep.  The room became quiet, and she gradually felt herself dozing off.
Just then, her friend popped up from her futon and started shaking her, saying, “I feel like some ice cream!  Let’s go to the convenience store and get some!”
The sleepy woman was in no mood for ice cream, so she said to her friend, “I’ll pass: how about you go by yourself?”
But her friend replied stubbornly, “I don’t feel safe walking alone at night.”
So finally she gave in and agreed to go with her to the convenience store.
But no sooner had they gotten out of the house than the friend grabbed her hand and started running in the opposite direction of the convenience store. What on earth was going on?
The woman demanded to know why she was acting this way, but her friend replied, “Don’t speak so loud! We’re going to the police box.” 
“I saw him! A man holding a big knife, hiding under the bed!”
Commentary:
This story is extremely widespread and was often said to have been reported by a newspaper, but of course it does not refer to a real event.  Most likely, sources had simply heard from their sources that someone else had read it in the papers. 
There are urban legends of a similar nature in Europe. A salesman stayed at a small hotel. While smoking in bed he carelessly allowed a lit cigarette to slip from his fingers and onto the floor. No sooner had he done so than he saw a human hand dart out from under the bed and extinguish the cigarette. Speaking out loud to himself, he said something like, “Well, I guess I’d better go take a leak after all that beer,”  Pretending to leave for the restroom, he managed to escape to safety.
Though the details differ, the motifs of a person hiding under a bed and a potential victim escaping danger through quick thinking are the same as the Japanese story.  Perhaps this European urban legend made its way to Japan gave rise to a Japanese version of “Under the Bed.”