This happened when I was just married and we were still living in Brigham City. Brandon is too little to remember this, but this happened when one of my friends was working the late shift down at Dick’s Texaco. You know--the gas station there on Main in Brigham just kitty-corner from; the school. I wasn’t working that night, but this friend of mine let me know the next day everything that had happened.
Anyway, I guess this guy and his girl had gone out onto the dike there at Willard Bay. Back then that was Brigham’s version of “Lover’s Lane.” High school kids would go out there all of the time to park and stuff. This one couple was out there parking, and they heard on the radio that this crazy killer with a hook for a hand had escaped from the mental hospital there in Provo and was on the loose. The report said that he was last seen heading north, but the police hadn’t caught up with him yet.
Well, when the girl heard this she got really nervous and wanted to get out of there. The boy wasn’t really worried so he tried to talk her out of it, but she wouldn’t have nothing to do with it. Anyway, the kid tried to play like he was out of gas and that the car wouldn’t start up. He said he would walk back and get some and told the girl to stay put.
The girl waited for a while and the boy didn’t come back so she started to get nervous. All of the sudden she started hearing these funny scratching noises at the back of the car. They started moving closer to the front of the car, and she got more and more scared. Finally, when she heard the scratching start at the passenger side door, she jumped into the driver’s seat and started the car up. She put the pedal to the metal and just flew out of there. As she peeled out, she heard this horrible scream, but she just couldn’t look back.
The guy I used to work with there at Dick’s Texaco saw this girl come speeding into the station like a crazy person. At that time of night, Dick’s was the only station open in Brigham City. The girl just sat out by the pumps and honked her horn. She wouldn’t even get out of the car. This guy went out to see what was wrong, and as he walked around the passenger side of the car there was this hook with a bloody stump hanging off of the passenger door handle.
They went out to the dike first thing the next morning. They found the kid dead. He had been all cut up by The Hook, but they couldn’t find The Hook. They could see the blood trail and where he had fallen off into the north side of the bay when the girl had taken off, but they never were able to find any other sign of him. They just guessed that he kept moving north.