Like I said my family was weird, they liked to dig for money and stuff. Said my grandfather had left us some money, and they was digging for it So one day we went, and I was at work, so I can see, we at a country spot, like our property. So I can see a lot of people dressed in white. So I’m curious me. I said well shit what the hell is everybody doing out there dressed in white? I wanna see. So I goes out there. So they tell me you’re working right now, just go home come back. You know, come back after work. So I goes back, man, after work. So, they all in the house. We all praying man, everyone’s on their knees praying. They got an excavator in the back yard, digging. You understand? Find this money, I guess. We’re on our knees, man, we’re praying. It’s like in the pit of the summer like here. No wind nothing. They had a wind come through the house. That wind was so strong: my aunt was holding onto the door like that and both her legs was in the air. That’s how strong the wind was. In the house. So they said — they picked me, my nephew, the one I was telling you that talk all that shit, and my little niece to go bring some water to the workers in back, the one that was doing the work. So we got to walking. We passed on the side of the house to bring them. So my nephew said, say man you see that guy in the tree? I said man fuck I don’t see nobody in no tree. He said yeah man he be right there sitting on that limb. I said I don’t see nobody man. I’m getting scared now. Man I don’t see nobody. But he’s seeing this, you know. So he said — I said how he look? It’s a guy, he said, it’s a guy dressed in a pirate suit, man. He said he got a pirate hat on. He got a pirate jacket. And he started talking to him. The guy in the tree started talking to him while he’s telling me this. But the guy in the tree is tell him shut up don’t tell me that. So he telling me, man, look he right there. You can’t see him? Look he right there on that branch. He say he want something more to drink You know, because what they had did: they’d put a bowl in the back yard, under this tree, with some alcohol in it. You understand? And I don’t know if it was the sun that would dissolve it, but it would be gone. Okay, so he say he say man he want another drink. So I said fuck man don’t tell me that. I wanna get back in the house. I said I don’t see nobody up there. So we kept on walking. We went out there. We brung them some water. So on our way back. Look at him. He say, see you, you son of a bitch. He say you don’t wanna give me another drink, huh? He say you gonna be just like me. He say you see this here peg leg? He say you going to be just like me. He say for this out here y’all are going to have to lose something. So, man, it got kind of scared. We started walking fast. By the time we got to the house, I broke out a run. A shovel, man, come from the back of the house. I mean full force. That shovel stuck in that tree so deep we had to dig it out with an axe. It stuck — you know with a shovel, it’s hard to stick a shovel into anything. That shovel went inside the tree halfway.