One time a man went off from home and just left his wife right by herself. They lived away off from anybody else. So that day she thought she would bake her up some pies and have them for her husband when he come back the next day. So she started baking the pies and it hadn't been long 'till a little Indian dog came in.  She knew Indians was about, but she didn't run. And sure enough it wasn't long 'till six Indians come in. One of them was a chief and the others were warriors, all painted up.
She didn't know what to do. But she decided the best thing do was to be as good to them as she could and maybe they would go on and not kill her.
So she invited them to come in and she went and brought each one of them a big pie and throwed on the pot and cooked them a good supper They was friendly enough, but they said they wanted to stay all night. She told them she didn't have but one bed. The chief told [her]  that was all right. They were not use[d] to sleeping in beds. All they wanted was just to stretch out on the floor and bake their brains before the fire. She told them all right, but she believed he just wanted a chance to kill her during the night.
 The little dog, it would run back towards the bed and growl and bark and to keep it quiet the chief put it out of the house and fastened the door.
The woman went to bed and the Indians all stretched out on the floor and the woman lay there awake thinking every minute they would kill her. But after a while she went to sleep in spite of herself; and she was waked up by something sharp sticking up, through the bed in her back. She cried out, "I knew you'd kill me, I knew you'd kill me."
The Indian chief he heard her going on and he jumped up and asked her what was the matter. She told him, and he counted his men and they were all there sound asleep. So he told her to go back to sleep, that she'd been dreaming. But it wasn't long 'till he heard her again, “I knew you'd kill me, I knew you'd kill me."
This time he counted his men again and found them all there, sound asleep. Then he looked under the bed and there laid a big Negro. He had slipped in the house that morning while the woman had gone to the spring and hid under the bed and was going to kill her. He had a big butcher knife that he was trying to stick in her up through the bed. The Indian chief dragged him out and tied him to a stake and stuck pine splinters in him and set them a-fire and burnt him to death.
Worker note:  This is an American folk tale.  It is interesting chiefly in that it can be traced back through four generations.  It was told me on July 21, 1940 by Spencer Greenfield Adams; he learned it from Leonard Erasmus Carter; he learned it from his mother-in-law, Mrs. Robert Adams; and she learned it from her husband, Samuel Simpson Adams, who learned it from his father Spencer Adams.