Quite a few years ago there was this guy and girl who decided to go for a ride up Green Canyon. A couple of kids in their High School had been telling eerie stories about having seen some big guy with a hook arm wandering around up Green Canyon. These stories discouraged a few from going near the area, but most thought it was just a joke to try and scare people.
Being one of those that didn't really believe the story, this particular guy suggested to his date that they take a drive up the canyon. It was quite late at night and the girl wasn't so sure about the idea, but finally consented to going. She didn't want to be thought of as a spoil sport. And after all, what could it hurt?
After driving for fifteen, twenty minutes they pulled off the road a ways and stopped the car. Just a short while after they had started to talk they heard this scratching sound coming from the back of the car--like something was grating against the bumper--and then it stopped. A couple minutes later they heard it again. And then again once more.
By this time the girl was really getting scared and wanted to get out of there fast. The fellow was getting a little worried himself. What if those stories he had heard at school were really true? But he quickly dismissed the idea as being silly and decided he'd better get out and look around. As he got his flashlight out of the cubbyhole, he gave his date strict instructions that if anything should happen or if he wasn't back in three minutes, to start the car and get out of there just as fast as possible.
The guy got out and headed toward the back of the car, with only a tiny beam of light in all that darkness. The girl was so frightened she didn't hardly dare move. She waited motionless for what seemed an eternity. Suddenly, she heard a blood-curdling scream, followed shortly by that same scratching sound they had heard previously.
Starting up the car in a panic, she tore out of there as fast as the car would go. With her heart pounding like the hammering of a nail, she went speeding down the canyon, hardly slowing up for the curves and not stopping for anything until she was safely back to her home. After pausing a moment to catch her breath, she got out of the car and there dangling on 6e door handle was a big metal hook.