Since the late nineteenth century, the "spook light" has appeared along a dark country road in Southwest Missouri. Local residents report that researchers have for years attempted to explain this apparent natural phenomenon.  [...]  However, among the inhabitants of the area, narratives of personal experiences with the light are more popular than the narratives which attempt to explain the origin and existence of it. These personal experience stories or memorates tend to be more popular among the teenage population and serve special functions for this segment of the community.
[...]
Since most of the recent studies of legends have focused on the role of belief in legend telling, it is instructive to examine the "spook light" legend in terms of how belief or the lack of belief manifests itself. The fact that the memorates greatly outnumber the narratives which attempt to explain the origin of the light provides evidence of the tendency of the narrators to avoid the question of belief. When reciting the etiological tales, informants tended to evade the question of belief by making such remarks as "I have heard ....." or "there's been stories .....," etc. However, when discussing their own experiences or those of close acquaintances with the light, no such hesitancy in revealing belief existed. In other words, while the informants showed little or no belief in the etiological legends,they did not hesitate to discuss their own experiences with the light in which the light is given a decided supernatural cast. As a unique form of expressive culture, the memorates allow the informants to avoid actually validating the existence of the supernatural, for in the telling of a memorate, the informant does not have to admit believing in the supernatural; he only admits to having had an experience which has supernatural overtones.2 In other words, the purpose of telling a supernatural legend has little do with either the perpetuation or validation of the supernatural. Consequently, if we are to understand the meaning and functions of the "spook light" and belief legends in general in modern society, we must look beyond the supernatural elements in it.
The reasons for the popularity of this legend may be best understood by looking generally at American supernatural legend tradition. Linda Degh has pointed out that [... ] "a good number of American belief legends have been developed, maintained, and used for special purposes in the life of young people between junior high school and college age."3 The perpetuation of the "spook light" legend supports Degh's general observations about belief legends. Without exception, the informants used for his paper reported that the stories of the "spook light" were more popular during their high school days.
The popularity of the legend among this age group emanates from the social context in which it often appears--parking. As a result of the widespread use of supernatural legends as a part of the parking ritual of teenagers, folklorists have labelled a certain group of belief legends as "parking legends." The designation "parking legend" reflects the social context of a legend's performance rather than its content or theme. The legend of the "spook light" fits into this general category as is evident by the fact that ill the narratives in this paper were collected from people who had actually seen the light at one time or another in a parking situation. During these times it is customary to recite one of the origin stories or recount a particularly eerie experience with the light on a previous occasion.
The "spook light" legend, like other belief legends, has become an important part of an elaborate initiation ritual for teenagers in Southwest Missouri. [...] The "sexual overtones" that reflect the function of dating are made explicit in version (1) of the "spook light" legend. The informant, a female, repeats several times that she believed that their visit to the site of the "spook light" had an "ulterior motive."
Alan Dundes in a study of the psychological functions of parking legends has shown how the content and language of these narratives often mirror the sexual intent of parking.6 For example, from his psychological perspective, Dundes would see the informant's comment in version (K), that the approach of the light "scared our pants off," as significant to an understanding of both the function of the legend and the intent of parking. The sexual overtones implicit in the telling of the "spook light" legend is further enhanced by its association with the "Hooked Arm" legend, the language of which has been shown to be highly sexual:7
L) One time a young couple was parked down at the light, waiting for the light to shine. And the boy looked across to the girl's side of the car and looked out of the window. And all of a sudden just turned pale and instantly started up the car and drove to the nearest.... oh, four or five miles to the closest public thing, a service station. And he got out of the car, and he was shaking and trembling, and she kept saying, "What happened, what happened." He was so afraid he couldn't speak. And finally he got himself together and calm and he said, "I looked outside your window and I saw this horrible, grotesque figure that was ... had a... instead of a hand, a hook for a hand and was trying to get into the car. It just scared me so much. I just could drive off the cliff." And the girl said, "Oh, it probably wasn't real. It was just an illusion." "No, it was real." She tried to calm him, and finally, at that time, he walked around to her side of the car, and there, hanging on the door was the hook with meat hanging off of it,
To associate the "Hooked Arm" legend with a favorite local teenage parking place is not an uncommon practice.8 In the case of the "spook light," the association aids in further understanding the functions of the legends and memorates that circulate about it. Implicit in parking legends is a warning about the dangers of "parking" by making those dangers concrete through the narratives. Because most of the stories involving the "spook light" portray it as basically harmless, the stories which give it and the area of its location more sinister overtones serves the function of making explicit the dangers of parking in this area.