Now this tale is about when Jack was a real teensy boy. He was a sort of puny
young 'un then, and he was cryin' one day when his mother was a-sweepin' the
house. She didn't pay him much mind, Just went on sweepin' the floor. Happened
she swept up a right big-sized bean, so she picked it up and gave it to Jack
to hush him, get him out the way.

"Here, run plant this bean," she says. "It'll make ye a bean tree."

So Jack ran out and planted it, and didn't cry any more that day.

Next mornin' he went out real early to see how it was gettin' on, came runnin'
back in, told his mother, "That bean tree's plumb through the ground and it's
done growed up knee high!"

"Why, Jack !" says his mother. "Why, you little lyin' puppy !" And she slaps
him.

Well, Jack he cried, but when his mother got the house cleaned up she looked
out and saw it was like Jack said, and she felt sorry, so she gave him some
bread and butter and brown sugar, and he hushed.

So the next mornin' Jack came and told his mother, "That bean tree's done got
as high as a sure 'nough treel" Now, Jack, you know you oughtn't to lie like
that."

And she slapped him pretty keen. But when she happened to look out and see it,
she came and gave Jack some ripe peaches and cream, and petted him a little
till he hushed.

Well, the next mornin' Jack came a-runnin'.

"Oh, mother! My bean tree's done growed plumb out-a-sight! You can't see the
top!"

"Now, Jack, you look-a-here! I just know that's not so. You surely must 'a
lied this time."

And she slapped his jaws, real hard. But she looked out directly and saw it,
so she went and got Jack, and gave him a big slice of cake and some sweet
milk.

Well, nobody said anything about the bean tree for several days, till one day
Jack said to his mother, "I'm a-goin' to climb up that bean tree of mine and
see how high it goes."

His mother told him he oughtn't to do that, but seemed like he had his head so
set on it she couldn't do nothin' with him. Jack said he'd pull her off a mess
of beans on the way up and throw 'em down to her. So she fixed him up a little
snack of dinner and he pulled out right on up the bean tree.

He kept on goin' - up and up and up. He cloomb all day, till it was way late
in the evenin' 'fore he got to the top. Then, just about dark Jack came to a
big pike-road up there. Went along it a little piece, came to a great big
house, walked up and knocked on the door.

A very large woman came and opened it, looked down at Jack, says, "Law,
stranger! What you a-coin' up here?"

"Why," says Jack, "because I wanted to come. This here's my bean tree. I just
cloomb it to see what was up here."

"Well, you better get on back down again quick. My old man's a giant. He'll
kill ye. He eats all the Englishmen he finds."

"Hit's a-gettin' late," says Jack, "and I can't get back very handy now. I
don't know what I'll do."

"You come on in, then, and I'll hide ye tonight, but you better leave early in
the mornin'."

So Jack went on in the house and the giant woman took him and put him in the
bake-oven, set the lid over him.

The old giant came in directly, looked around, says,

_"Fee, faw, fumm!_

_I smell the blood of a English-mum_

_Bein' he alive or bein' he dead,_

_I must have some!"_

The old lady says, "No. You don't smell no English-mum. Must be that fresh
mutton you brought in here yesterday."

The old giant looked around a little more, and fin'ly they eat supper and went
on to bed.

When Jack heard the giant snorin', he came out the bake-oven and went lookin'
around the house. Saw a rifle-gun a-hangin' over the fireboard, so he took
that and went on back down the bean tree.

Jack played around with the rifle-gun a few days till he began to get sort-a
tired of it, then he decided he'd go back up and see what else he could find.
So he cloomb up the bean tree again.

The old lady was a-standin' out on the steps, says, "Why, you little scamp!
Here you are back again. My old man'll kill you sure's the world. He saw his
rifle-gun was gone. You better not try to come in here tonight."

"Well," says Jack, "you hide me this time and hit may be I'll not come back no
more."