ONE TIME Jack and his two brothers, Will and Tom, were all of 'em a-layin'
around home; weren't none of 'em doin' no good, so their daddy decided he'd
set 'em to work. He had him a tract of land out in a wilder-ness of a place
back up on the mountain Told the boys they could go up there and work it. Said
he'd give it to 'em. Hit was a right far ways from where anybody lived at, so
they fixed 'em up a wagonload of rations and stuff for house keepin' and
pulled out.

There wasn't no house up there, so they cut poles and notched 'em up a shack.
They had to go to work in a hurry to get out any crop and they set right in to
clearin' 'em a newground. They decided one boy 'uld have to stay to the house
till twelve and do the cookin'.

First day Tom and Jack left Will there. Will went to fixin' around and got
dinner ready, went out and browed the horn to call Tom and Jack, looked down
the holler and there came a big old giant steppin' right up the mountain. Had
him a pipe about four foot long, and he had a long old blue beard that dragged
on the ground.

When Will saw the old giant was headed right for the house, he ran and got
behind the door, pulled it back on him and scrouged back against the wall
a-shakin' like a leaf. The old giant came on to the house, reached in and
thronged the cloth back off the dishes, eat ever'thing on the table in one
bite and sopped the plates. Snatched him a chunk of fire and lit his pipe; the
smoke came a-bilin' out. Then he wiped his mouth and went on back down the
holler with that old pipe a-sendin' up smoke like a steam engine.

Tom and Jack came on in directly, says, "Why in the world ain't ye got us no
dinner, Will?"

"Law me!" says Will. "If you'd 'a seen what I just seen you'd 'a not thought
about no dinner. An old Fire Dragaman came up here, eat ever' bite on the
table, and sopped the plates."

Tom and Jack laughed right smart at Will.

Will says, "You all needn't to laugh. Hit'll be your turn to- morrow, Tom."

So they fixed up what vittles they could and they all went back to work in the
newground.

Tom got dinner, went out and browed the horn. There came Old Fire Dragaman-

"Law me!" says Tom. "Where'll I get?"

He ran and scrambled under the bed. Old Fire Dragaman came on up, eat
ever'thing there was on the table, sopped the plates, and licked out all the
pots. Lit his old pipe and pulled out down me holler, the black smoke
a-rollin' like comin' out a chimley. Hit was a sight to look at.

Will and Jack came in, says, "Where's our dinner, Tom?"

"Dinner, the nation! Old Fire Dragaman came back up here. Law me! Hit was the
beatin'-est thing I ever seen!"

Will says, "Where was you at, Tom?"

"Well, I'll tell ye," says Tom; "I was down under the bed."

Jack laughed, and Will and Tom says, "You just wait about laughin', Jack.
Hit'll be your time tomorrow."

Next day Will and Tom went to the newground. They got to laughin' about where
Jack 'uld hide at when Old Fire Dragaman came.

Jack fixed up ever'thing for dinner, went out about twelve and browed the
horn. Looked down the wilder-ness, there was Old Fire Dragaman a-comin' up the
hill with his hands folded behind him and a-lookin' around this way and that.

Jack went on back in the house, started puttin' stuff on the table. Never
payed no attention to the old giant, just went right on a-fixin' dinner. Old
Fire Dragaman came on up. 