THIS HERE TALE'S another'n about Jack going' a-courtin'. And there's some more
tales about Jack gettin' married; like that 'un about the doctor's girl, and
there was that pretty girl down in Old Fire Dragaman's hole in the ground.
'Course Jack didn't marry all them girls at once. Hit might 'a been one way
and hit night 'a been another. There's just different ways of tellin' it.

Well, this time it wasn't no King's girl. There was a farmer lived 'way back
in the mountain had two awful pretty girls, and the boys were all crazy about
'em. This farmer, though, he was wealthy, and he didn't want the boys comin'
around there, so he fixed up a way to get shet of 'em.

He put out a adver-tize-ment that any boy who wanted one of his girls would
have to ketch 'em a wild rabbit and put it in a ring and make it stay there
thirty minutes. That was his proposition: they would have to bring the rabbit
and he'd make a ring ten foot across; then they'd put the rabbit in there and
if it stayed thirty minutes, they could have one of the girls. But if the
rabbit failed to stay that long, he'd kill the boy that had brought the
rabbit.

Well, not many went to try, but some did, and the old man cut their heads off.
Directly it got so the boys mostly quit gain' down here. That suited the old
man fine. But then some boy would get so struck on one of the girls, he'd
venture, and get his head cut off. Fin'ly it got so nobody'd go.

Well, Jack he got to studyin' about how he might get one of them girls. His
mother told him he better not do that, but Jack said he'd just have to try. So
he caught him a rabbit, and put him a little snack of dinner in a poke, and
then he got fixed up and started out.

About twelve o'clock in the wilder-ness, Jack met up with an old gray-bearded
man. This old man looked like he was about a hundred years old, and he was
walkin' with ; walkin' stick.

Jack came along, the old man stopped, says, "Howdy do, Jack."

"Howdy do, daddy."

Jack looked at him, says, "I don't believe I know ye."

"No," says the old man. "I know you, though, and I know right where you've
started. You're a-fi'cin' to get killed, now, ain't ye?"

"I might, now," says Jack.

"Are you familiar with what you got to do to get one of them girls?"

"Tol'able familiar," says Jack.

"Don't you think you'd just as well start on back home?"

"Oh, no," says Jack. "I'd never turn back. I'm a-goin' of down there now."

"Well, I might help ye," says the old man, "if ye got any faith. How's your
faith, Jack?" Jack said his faith was pretty good, says, "I'd sure be much
obliged was you to help me, daddy."

"Well, if you come down the road a piece with me, I'll test you out a little
and we'll see whether you got faith or no."

Got down the road a ways, the old man says, "Now, Jack, you take this stick
here and go up there in the woods a ways till you come to a very flush spring.
Then you take my stick and stir in that spring till that done, I'll come up
there with somethin' to help ye."

So Jack took that walkin' stick and went on to where there was a very bold
spring comin' out the ground. Stuck that stick down in it and com-menced
stirrin'.

Jack's faith was sort of weak when he started, but he 'lowed he'd have to keep
on tryin'. He stirred right on, stirred right on, and pretty soon it looked
like the water was turnip' just a little bit pink. So Jack's faith got
stronger and stronger and the water got redder and redder.

Well, when that spring turned real red, there was that old man standin' there,
says, "Well, Jack, you sure got faith. Now you get out your lunch and we'll
eat a little and try some of that and see whether it tastes like wine or not."

So they did, and that water was just as good as any wine. Then the old man
says to Jack, says, "I've done made ye a drill here, Jack. You can take that
and stick it down in the middle of the ring that man'll make and your
rabbit'll stay in there till it dies; it don't differ how wild he is." He gave
Jack a drill shaved out of a stick. It was eight-square like a steel drill and
about a foot long.

Jack thanked him and started on again.

Got down to that place where the girls were, Jack hollered the old man out and
said he'd come to try for one of his girls.

The man told Jack to come around in the yard, and then he marked out a ring,
says, "Now, you put your rabbit down in this ring and if it stays in there
thirty minutes, you can take whichever girl you want. And if it don't stay in
the ring thirty minutes, I'll kill you. You understand now, do ye?"

Jack said he did, made like he was gain' to turn his rabbit loose.

The man says to him, says, "I'll make ye another proposition; if you can make
that rabbit stay in there thirty minutes, I'll just let you kill me and take
all the money I got."

Jack went and stuck that drill down in the middle of the ring, and dumped the
rabbit out the poke he had it in. The rabbit got up on its feet, saw that
drill and took out around it hard as it could go, around and around and
around. The old man watched Jack's rabbit a-goin' around in there, and his
eyes just stuck out. Walked around the other side the ring, watched it some
more. That rabbit ran right on, 'round and 'round the drill. The old man kept
takin' out his watch; fin'ly he turned around and went on back in the house.

Told his old woman and the girls, says, "It's my opinion that rabbit is
stayin' in there on account of that drill Jack stuck in the ring. One of you
go on out there and see can't ye buy that thin' off of Jack."

So the oldest girl she went out, says to Jack, "What'll ye take for that
drill, Jack?"

Jack says, "I don't know as I'd want to sell it right now."

"I'll give ye a thousand dollars for it."

"No," says Jack, "I'll not sell it."

So she went on back, told her daddy she couldn't make no trade. Then he sent
his youngest girl out. She came up 'side of Jack, says, "Jack, I'd like awful
well to buy that drill."

"Well," says Jack, "you can have it after thirty minutes is up."

"Aw, Jack," she says, "I want it now. I'll pay ye two thousand dollars for
it."

"No," says Jack, "you wait till thirty minutes is out, and then we'll trade."
So she saw she couldn't do no good, went on back in the house. Then the man
said to his old lady, says, "You go."

She went out.

"Jack, I'd sure like to trade ye out of that drill. You can have one of the
girls, right now; and I'll give ye three thousand dollars and ever'thing on
the place."

"No," says Jack, "not till thirty minutes is out."

The old lady went on back, says, "I can't do a thing with him. He won't even
talk about sellin'."

The old man looked at his watch, says, "Well, that thirty minutes is about up.
I reckon I'll have to go on out and let Jack kill me." Started out, picked up
a big bowl off the table, and took that to Jack, says,

"Jack, it looks like your rabbit's gain' to stay in there. You might as well
kill me." Says, "'Fore you do, though, I wish you'd sing this bowl full of
lies"

"All right," says Jack, "I'll try." s

Says, "Is it full?"

"No," says the old man, "only one drop."

_"Oh, the youngest daughter she came out_  
_All for to bud my drill._  
_I fooled around her, kissed her well._  
_Fill, bowl! Fill!_

Is it full yet?"

"Just two drops, Jack."

_"Oh, the old ladyshe came out_  
_All for to buy my drill_  
_I fooled around her, ki..."_

"Stop, Jack! Hit's full and runnin' over. Just cut my head off."  