WELL, Jack fin'ly joined the King's army and went off to the wars. He fought
first in one country and then in another, and did pretty well. He served
thirty years, and then they told him they reckoned he'd pulled his term and he
could go on back home. So they gave him his dis-charge, and Jack hit the road.

Now, back in them days soldiers didn't get no pay, and all they gave a man
when he left the army was two loaves of bread. Jack I was a-walkin' on the
highway with those loaves of lightbread stuck under his arm when he met up
with a beggar, and the beggar he bummed Jack for somethin' to eat, so Jack
gave him one of his loaves of bread. Then directly he met an old man with a
long gray beard, and he asked Jack for some bread. Jack cut the other loaf in
two and gave the old feller half of it and went on.

But he got to studyin' about that 'fore he'd gone very far, and then he turned
back and caught up with the old man, says "Daddy, I didn't do you right. I
gave another man a whole low and I didn't give you but a half a one. Here's
the rest of the loaf."

The old man thanked Jack, says, "Well, now, you're all right, Jack, and here's
something I'm goin' to give you." He handed Jack a sack he had across his arm,
says, "If ever you want to catch anything, you take this sack and hold it open
with one hand and slap it with the other'n, and say,

_'Whickety whack!. _

_Into my sack!'_

and it'll get right in this sack for ye."

Then he took a little vial out of his pocket and gave that to Jack, says,
"Now, this little glass will tell you whether somebody who's sick will die or
get well. All you got to do is fill it up with clear spring water and look
through it. If you see Death standin' at the foot of the bed, that person'll
get well, but if Death is waitin' at the head of the bed, you'll know they're
about to die."

_" Whickty Whack! _  
_Into my sack!"_

and it'll get right in this sack for ye."

Next day Jack went on, and about twelve he passed by a big fine house near the
road, looked like nobody lived there. The yard was growed up in weeds and
there wasn't no curtains in the windows, and Jack got to wonderin' about such
a good house bein' empty. Met a boy in the road directly and the boy told Jack
the was ha'nted. Jack asked who did the place belong to and the boy told him.
So Jack went down to that man's house and got to talkin' to him about it. 