   I was glad when somebody told me, "You may go and collect Negro folklore."
   In a way it would not be a new experience for me. When I pitched headforemost into the world I landed in in the crib of negroism. From the earliest rocking of my cradle, I had known about the capers Brer Rabbit is apt to cut and what Squinch Owl says from the house top. But it was fitting like a tight chemise. I couldn't see it for wearing it. It was only when I was off in college, away from my native surroundings that I could see myself like somebody else and stand off and look at my garment. Then I had to have the spyglass of Anthropology to look through at that.
   Dr. Boas asked me where I wanted to work and I said, "Florida," and gave, as my big reason, that "Florida is a place that draws people, white people from all the world, and Negroes from every Southern state surely and some from the North and West." So I knew that it was possible for me to get cross section of the Negro South in the one state. And then I realized that I was new myself, so it looked sensible for me ,choose familiar ground.
   First place I aimed to stop to collect material was Eatonville, Florida.
   And now, I'm going to tell you why I decided to go to my native village first. I didn't go back there so that the home could make admiration over me because I had been up North to college and come back with a diploma and a Chevrolet. I knew they were not going to pay either one of these I items too much mind. I was just Lucy Hurston's daughter, Zora and even if I had, to use one of our down home expressions,had a Kaiser baby, and that's something that hasn't been done in this Country yet, I'd still be just Zora to the neighbors. If I had exalted myself to impress the town, somebody would have sent me word in a matchbox that I had been up North there and had rubbed the hair off of my head against some college wall, and then come back there with a lot of form and fashion and outside show to the world. But they'd stand flatfooted and tell me that they didn't have me, neither my sham-polish, to study 'bout. And that would have been that.
   I hurried back to Eatonville because I knew that the town was full of material and that I could get it without hurt, harm or danger. As early as I could remember it was the habit of the men folks particularly to gather on the store porch of evenings and swap stories. Even the women folks would stop and break a breath with them at times. As a child when I was sent down to Joe Clarke's store, I'd drag out my leaving as long as possible in order to hear more.
   Folklore is not as easy to collect as it sounds. The best source is where there are the least outside influences and these people, being usually underprivileged, are the shyest. They are most reluctant at times to reveal that which the soul lives by. And the Negro, in spite of his open faced laughter, his seeming acquiescence, is particularly evasive. You see we are a polite people and we do not say to our questioner, "Get out of here!" We smile and tell him or her something that satisfies the white person because, knowing so little about us, he doesn't know what he is missing. The Indian resists curiosity by a stony silence. The Negro offers a feather bed resistance, that is, we let the probe enter, but it never comes out. It gets smothered under a lot of laughter and pleasantries.
   The theory behind our tactics: "The white man is always trying to know into somebody else's business. All right, I'll set something outside the door of my mind for him to play with and handle. He can read my writing but he sho' can't read my mind. I'll put this play toy in his hand, and he will seize it and go away. Then I'll say my say and sing my song."
   I knew that I was going to have some hindrance among strangers. But here in Eatonville I knew everybody was going to help me. So below Palatka I began to feel eager to be there and I kicked the little Chevrolet right along.
   I thought about the tales I had heard as a child. How even the Bible was made over to suit our vivid imagination. How the devil always outsmarted God how that over noble hero Jack or John, not John Henry, who occupies the same place in Negro folklore that Casey Jones does in white lore and if anything is more recent outsmarted the devil. Brer Fox, Brer Deer, Brer 'Gator, Brer Dawg, Brer Rabbit, Ole Massa and his wife were walking the earth like natural men way back in the days when God himself was on the ground and men could talk with him. Way back there before God weighed up the dirt to make the mountains. When I was rounding Lily Lake I was remembering how God had made the world and the elements and people. He made souls for people, but he didn't give them out because he said:
   "Folks ain't ready for souls yet. De clay ain't dry. It's de strongest thing Ah ever made. Don't aim to waste none thru loose cracks. And then men got to grow strong enough to stand it. De way things is now, if Ah give it out it would tear them shackly bodies to pieces. Bimeby, Ah give it out."
So folks went round thousands of years without no souls. All de time de soul piece, it was setting 'round covered up wid God's loose raiment. Every now and then de wind would blow and hist up de cover and then de elements would be full of lightning and de winds would talk. So people told one 'nother that God was talking in de mountains.
   De white man passed by it way off and he looked but he wouldn't go close enough to touch. De Indian and de Negro, they tipped by cautious too, and all 'em seen de light of diamonds when de winds shook de cover, and de wind that passed over it sung songs. De Jew come past and heard de song from de soul-piece then he kept on passin' and all of a sudden he grabbed up de soul-piece and hid it under his clothes, and run off down de road. It burnt him and tore him and throwed him down and lifted him up and toted him across de mountain and he tried to break loose but he couldn't do it. He kept on hollerin' for help but de rest of 'em run hid 'way from him. Way after while they come out of holes and corners and picked up little chips and pieces that fell back on de ground. So God mixed it up wid feelings and give it out to 'em. "way after while when He ketch that Jew. He's goin; to vide things up more ekal'.
   So I rounded Park Lake and came speding down a staight stretch into Eatonville, the city of five lakes, three croquet courts, three hundred brown skins, three hundred good swimmers, plenty guavas, two schools, and no jailhouse.
   Before I enter the township, I wish to make acknowledegements to Mrs. R. Osgood Mason of New York City. She backed my falling in a hearty way, in a spiritual way, and in addition financed the whole expedition in a the manner of the Great Soul that she is. The worlds most gallant woman.

   As I crossed the Maitland-Eatonville township line I could see a group on the store porch. I was delighted. The town had not changed. Same love of talk and song. So I drove on down there before I stopped. Yes, there was George Thomas, Calvin Daniels, Jack and Charlie Jones, Gene Brazzle, B. Moseley and "Seaboard." Deep in a game of Florida-flip. AH of those who were not actually playing were giving advice-"bet straightening" they call it.
   "Hello, boys," I hailed them as I went into neutral.
   They looked up from the game and for a moment it looked as if they had forgotten me. Then B. Moseley said, "Well, if it ain't Zora Hurston!" Then everybody crowded around the car to help greet me.
   "You gointer stay awhile, Zora?"
   "Yep. Several months."
   "Where you gointer stay, Zora?"
   "With Mett and Ellis, I reckon."
   "Mett" was Mrs. Armetta Jones, an intimate friend of mine since childhood and Ellis was her husband. Their house stands under the huge camphor tree on the front street.
   "Hello, heart-string," Mayor Hiram Lester yelled as he hurried up the street. "We heard A about you up North. You back home for good, I hope."
   "Nope, Ah come to collect some old stories and tales and Ah know y'all know a plenty of 'em and that's why Ah headed straight for home."
   "What you mean, Zora, them big old lies we tell when we're jus' sittin' around here on the store porch doin' nothin'?" asked B. Moseley.
   "Yeah, those same ones about Ole Massa, and colored folks in heaven, and oh, y'all know the kind I mean."
   "Aw shucks," exclaimed George Thomas doubtfully. "Zora, don't you come here and tell de biggest lie first thing.
   "Who you reckon want to read all them old-time tales about Brer Rabbit and Brer Bear?"
   "Plenty of people, George. They are a lot more valuable than you might think. We want to set them down before it's too late."
   "Too late for what?"
   "Before everybody forgets all of 'em."
   "No danger of that. That's all some people is good for settin' 'round and lie and murder groceries."
   "Ah know one right now," Calvin Daniels announced cheerfully. "It's a tale 'bout John and de frog."
   "Wait till she get out her car, Calvin. Let her get settled at 'Met's' and cook a pan of ginger bread then we'll all go down and tell lies and eat ginger bread. Dat's de way to do. She's tired now from all dat drivin'."
   "All,right, boys," I agreed. "But Ah'"I'll be rested by night. Be lookin' for everybody."
   So I unloaded the car and crowded it into Ellis' garage and got settled. Armetta made me lie down and rest while she cooked a big pan of ginger bread for the company we expected.
   Calvin Daniels and James Moseley were the first to show
   "Calvin, Ah sure am glad that you got here. Ah'm crazy to hear about John and dat frog," I said.
   "That's why Ah come so early so Ah could tell it to you and go. Ah got to go over to Wood Bridge a little later on."
   "Ah'm glad you remembered me first, Calvin."
   "Ah always like to be good as my word, and Ah just heard about a toe?party over to Wood Bridge tonight and Ah decided to make it."
   "A toe-party! What on earth is that?"
   "Come go with me and James and you'll see!"
   "But, everybody will be here lookin' for me. They'll think Ah'm crazy tellin' them to come and then gettin' out and goin' to Wood Bridge myself. But Ah certainly would like to go to that toe-party."
   "Aw, come on. They kin come back another night. You gointer like this party."
   "Well, you tell me the story first, and by that time,Ah'll know what to do."
   "Ah, come on, Zora," James urged. "Git de car out. Calvin kin tell you dat one while we're on de way. Come on, let's go to de toe-party."
   "No, let 'im tell me this one first, then, if Ah go he can tell me some more on de way over."
   James motioned to his friend. "Hurry up and tell it, Calvin so we kin go before somebody else come." "Aw, most of 'em ain't comin' nohow. They all 'bout to Wood Bridge, too. Lemme tell you 'bout John and frog:
   It was night and Ole Massa sent John, his favorite slave, down to the spring to get him a cool drink of water. He called John to him.
"John!"
   "What you want, Massa?"
   "John, I'm thirsty. Ah wants a cool drink of water and Ah wants you to go down to de spring and dip me up a nice cool pitcher of water."
   John didn't like to be sent nowhere at night but he always tried to do everything, Ole Massa told him to do so he said, "Yessuh, Massa, Ah'Il go git you some!
   Ole Massa said: "Hurry up, John. Ah'm mighty thirsty."
   John took de pitcher and went on down to de spring There was a great big ole bull frog settin' right on edge of de spring, and when John dipped up de water de noise skeered de frog and he hollered and jumped over in de spring.
   John dropped de water pitcher and tore out for de big house, hollerin' "Massa! Massa! A big ole booger done got after me! "
   Ole Massa told him, "Why, John, there's no such thing as a booger."
   "Oh, yes it is, Massa. He down at dat Spring."
   "Don't tell me, John. Youse just excited. Furthermore, you go git me dat water Ah sent you after."
   "No, indeed, Massa, you and nobody else can't send me back there so dat booger kin git me."
   Ole Massa begin to figger dat John musta seen somethin' sho nuff because John never had disobeyed him before, so he ast: "John, you say you seen a booger. What did it look like?"
   John tole him, "Massa, he had two great big eyes lak balls of fire, and when he was standin' up he was sittin' down and when he moved, he moved by jerks, and he had most no tail."
   Long before Calvin had ended his story James had lost his air of impatience.
   "Now, Ah'Il tell one," he said. "That is, if you so desire."
   "Sure, Ah want to hear you tell 'em till daybreak if you will," I said eagerly.
   "But where's the ginger bread?" James stopped to ask.
   "It's out in the kitchen," I said. "Ah'm waiting for de others to come."
   "Aw, naw, give us ours now. Them others may not get here before forty o'clock and Ah'Il be done et mine and be in Wood Bridge. Anyhow Ah want a corner piece and some of them others will beat me to it."
   So I served them with ginger bread and buttermilk.
   "You sure going to Wood Bridge with us after Ah git thru tellin' this one?" James asked.
   "Yeah, if the others don't show up by then," I conceded.
   So James told the story about the man who went to Heaven from Johnstown.

   You know, when it lightnings, de angels is peepin' in de lookin' glass; when it thunders, they's rollin' out de rain-barrels; and when it rains, somebody done dropped a barrel or two and bust it.
   One time, you know, there was going to be big doin's in Glory and all de angels had brand new clothes to wear and so they was all peepin' in the lookin' glasses, and therefore it got to lightning all over de sky. God tole some of de angels to roll in all de full rain barrels and they was in such a hurry that it was thunderin' from the east to the west and the zigzag lightning went to join the mutterin' thunder and, next thing you know, some of them angels got careless and dropped a whole heap of them rain barrels, and didn't it rain!
   In one place they call Johnstown they had a great flood. And so many folks got drownded that it looked jus' like Judgment day.
   So some of de folks that got drownded in that flood went one place and some went another. You know, everything that happen, they got to be a nigger in itand so one of de brothers in black went up to Heben from de flood.
   When he got to the gate, Ole Peter let 'im in and made 'im welcome. de colored man was named John, so John ast Peter, says, "Is it dry in dere?"
   Ole Peter tole 'im, "Why, yes it's dry in here. How come you ast that?"
   "Well, you know Ah jus' come out of one flood, and Ah don't want to run into no mo'. Ooh, man! You ain't seen no water. You just oughter seen dat flood we had at Johnstown."
   Peter says, "Yeah, we know all about it. Jus' go wid Gabriel and let him give you some new clothes."
   So John went on off wid Gabriel and come back all dressed up in brand new clothes and all de time he was changin' his clothes he was tellin' Ole Gabriel all about dat flood, jus' like he didn't know already.
   So when he come back from changin' his clothes, they give him a brand new gold harp and handed him to a gold bench and made him welcome. They was so tired of hearing about dat flood they was glad to see him Aid his harp 'cause they figgered he'd get to playin' and forget all about it. So Peter tole him, "Now you jus' make yo'self at home and play all de music you please."
   John went and took a seat on de bench and commenced to tune up his harp. By dat time, two angels come walkin' by where John was settin' so he throwed down his harp and tackled 'em.
   "Say," he hollered, "Y'all want to hear 'bout de big flood Ah was in down on earth? Lawd, Lawd! It sho rained, and talkin' 'bout water!"
   Dem two angels hurried on off from 'im jus' as quick as they could. He started to tellin' another one and he took to flyin'. Gab'ull went over to 'im and tried to get 'im to take it easy, but John kept right on stoppin' every angel dat he could find to tell 'im about clat flood of water.
   Way after while he went over to Ole Peter and said: "Thought you said everybody would be nice and polite?"
   Peter said, "Yeah, Ah said it. Ain't everydatatin' you right?"
   John said, "Naw. Ah jus' walked up to a man as nice and friendly as Ah could be and started to tell 'im 'bout all clat water Ah left back there in Johnstown and instead of him turnin' me a friendly answer he said, 'Shucks! You ain't seen no water!' and walked off and left me standin' by myself."
   "Was he a ole man wid a crooked walkin' stick?" Peter ast John.
   "Yeah."
   "Did he have whiskers down to here?" Peter measured down to his waist.
   "He sho did," John tol' 'im.
   "Aw shucks," Peter tol' 'im. "Dat was Ole Nora. You can't tell him nothin' 'bout no flood."

   There was a lot of horn-honking outside and I went to the door. The crowd drew up under the mothering camphor tree in four old cars. Everybody in boisterous spirits.
   "Come on, Zora! Le's go to Wood Bridge. Great toe?party goin' on. All kinds of 'freshments. We kin tell you some lies most any ole time. We never run outer lies and lovin'. Tell'em tomorrow night. Come on if you comin'-- le's go if you gwine.
   So I loaded up my car with neighbors and we all went to Wood Bridge. It is a Negro community joining Maitland on the north as Eatonville does on the west, but no enterprising souls have ever organized it. They have no schoolhouse, no post office, no mayor. It is lacking in Eatonville's feeling of unity. In fact, a white woman lives there.
   While we rolled along Florida No. 3, 1 asked Armetta where was the shindig going to be in Wood Bridge. "At Edna Pitts' house," she told me. "But she ain't givin' it by herself; it's for the lodge."
   "Think it's gointer be lively?"
   "Oh, yeah. Ah heard that a lot of folks from Altamonte and Longwood is comin'. Maybe from Winter Park too."
   We were the tail end of the line and as we turned off the highway we could hear the boys in the first car doing what Ellis Jones called bookooing before they even hit the ground. Charlie Jones was woofing louder than anybody else. "Don't y'all sell off all dern pretty li'l pink toes befo' Ah git dere."
   Peter Stagg: "Save me de best one!"
   Soddy Sewell: "Hey, you mullet heads! Get out de way there and let a real man smoke them toes over."
   Gene Brazzle: "Come to my pick, gimme a vaseline brown! "
   Big Willie Sewell: "Gimme any kind so long as you gimme more'n one."
   Babe Brown, riding a running-board, guitar in hand, said, "Ah want a toe, but if it ain't got a good looking face on to it, don't bring de mess up."
   When we got there the party was young. The house was swept and garnished, the refreshments on display, several people sitting around; but the spot needed some social juices to mix the ingredients. In other words, they had the carcass of a party lying around up until the minute Eatonville burst in on it. Then it woke up.
   "Y'all done sold off any toes yet?" George Brown wanted to know.
   Willie Mae Clarke gave him a certain look and asked him, "What's dat got to do with you, George Brown?" And he shut up. Everybody knows that Willie Mae's got the business with George Brown.
   "Nope. We ain't had enough crowd, but I reckon we kin start now," Edna said. Edna and a sort of committee went inside and hung up a sheet across one end of the room. Then she came outside and called all of the young women inside. She had to coax and drag some of the girls.
   "Oh, Ah'm shame-face-ted!" some of them said.
   "Nobody don't want to buy mah ole rusty toe." Others fished around for denials from the male side.
   I went on in with the rest and was herded behind the curtain.
   "Say, what is this toe-party business?" I asked one of the girls.
   "Good gracious, Zora! Ain't you never been to a toe-party before? "
   "Nope. They don't have 'em up North where Ah been and Ah just got back today."
   "Well, they hides all de girls behind a curtain and you stick out yo' toe. Some places you take off yo' shoes and some places you keep 'em on, but most all de time you keep 'em on. When all de toes is in a line, sticking out from behind de sheet they let de men folks in and they looks over all de toes and buys de ones they want for a dime. Then they got to treat de lady dat owns dat toe to everything she want. Sometime they play it so's you keep de same partner for de whole thing and sometime they fix it so they put de girls back every hour or so and sell de toes agin.
   Well, my toe went on the line with the rest and it was sold five times during the party. Everytime a toe was sold there was a great flurry before the curtain. Each man eager to see what he had got, and whether the other men would envy him or ridicule him. One or two fellows ungallantly ran out of the door rather than treat the girls whose toe they had bought sight unseen.
   Babe Brown got off on his guitar and the dancing was hilarious. There was plenty of chicken perleau and baked chicken and fried chicken and rabbit. Pig feet and chitterlings' and hot peanuts and drinkables. Everybody was treating wildly.
   "Come on, Zora, and have a treat on me!" Charlie Jones insisted. "You done et chicken-ham and chicken-bosom wid every shag-leg in Orange County but me. Come on and spend some of my money."
   "Thanks, Charlie, but Ah got five helpin's of chicken inside already. Ah either got to get another stomach or quit catin'."
   "Quit eatin' then and go to thinking. Quit thinkin' and start to drinkin'. What you want?"
   "Coca-Cola right off de ice, Charlie, and put some salt in it. Ah got a slight headache."
   "Aw naw, my money don't buy no sweet slop. Choose some coon dick."
   "What is coon dick?"
   "Aw, Zora, jus' somethin' to make de drunk come. Made out uh grape fruit juice, corn meal mash, beef bones and a few mo' things. Come on le's git some together. It might make our love come down."
   As soon as we started over into the next yard where coon dick was to be had, Charlie yelled to the barkeep, "Hey, Seymore! fix up another quart of dat low mine--here come de boom!"
   It was handed to us in a quart fruit jar and we went outside to try it.
   The raw likker known locally as coon dick was too much.
   The minute it touched my lips, the top of my head flew off. I spat it out and "choosed" some peanuts. Big Willie Sewell said, "Come on, heart-string, and have some gospel-bird on me. My money spends too." His Honor, Hiram Lester, the Mayor, heard him and said, "There's no mo' chicken left,Willie. Why don't you offer her something she can get?"
   "Well there was some chicken there when Ah passed the table a little while ago."
   "Oh, so you offerin' her some chicken was. She can't eat that. What she want is some chicken is."
   "Aw shut up, Hiram. Come on, Zora, le's go inside make out we dancin'." We went on inside but it wasn't a party any more. Just some people herded together. The high spirits were simmering down and nobody had a dime left to cry so the toe-business suffered a slump. The heaped-up tables of refreshments had become shambles of chicken bones and empty platters anyway so that there was no longer any point in getting your toe sold, so when Columbus Montgomery said, "Le's go to Eatonville," Soddy Sewell jumped up and grabbed his hat and said, "I heard you, buddy."
   Eatonville began to move back home right then. Nearly everybody was packed in one of the five cars when the delcgation from Altamonte arrived. Johnny Barton and Georgia Burke. Everybody piled out again.
   "Got yo' guitar wid you, Johnnie?"
   "Man, you know Ah don't go nowhere unless Ah take my box wid me," said Johnnie in his starched blue shirt, collar pin with heart bangles hanging on each end and his cream pants with the black stripe. "And what make it so cool, Ah don't go nowhere unless I play it."
   "And when you git to strowin' yo' mess and Georgy gits to singin' her alto, man it's hot as seven hells. Man, play dat 'Palm Beach'."
   
Babe Brown took the guitar and Johnnie Barton grabbed the piano stool. He sung. Georgia Burke and George Thomas singing about Polk County where the water taste like wine.
   My heart struck sorrow ,tears come running down.
   At about the thirty-seventh verse, something about:
   Ah'd ruther be in Tampa with the Whip-poor-will,
   Ruther be in Tampa with the Whip-poor-will
   Than to be 'round here--
   Honey with a hundred dollar bill,
   I staggered sleepily forth to the little Chevrolet for Eatonville. The car was overflowing with passengers but I was so dull from lack of sleep thatI didn't know who they were.  All I knew is they belonged in Eatonville.
   Somebody was woofing in my car about love and I asked him about his buddy.I don't know why now. He said, "Ah ain't got no buddy. They kilt my buddy so they could raise me.Jus' so Ah be yo' man Ah don't want no damn buddy. Ah hope they kill every man dat ever cried, 'titty-mamma' but me. Lemme be yo' kid."
   Some voice from somewhere else in the car commented, "You sho' Lawd is gointer have a lot of hindrance."
   Then somehow I got home and to bed and Armetta had Georgia syrup and waffles for breakfast.The very next afternoon, as usual, the gregarious part of the town's population gathered on the store porch. All the Florida flip players, all the eleven-card players. But they yelled over to me they'd be over that night in full. And they were.
   "Zora," George Thomas informed me, "you come to de right place if lies is what you want. Ah'm gointer lie up a nation. 
    Charlie Jones said, "Yeah, man. Me and my sworn buddy Gene Brazzle is here. Big Moose done come down from de mountain."
   "Now, you gointer hear lies above suspicion," Gene added.
   It was a hilarious night with a pinch of everything social mixed with the story-telling. Everybody ate ginger bread; some drank the buttermilk provided and some provided coon dick for themselves. Nobody guzzled it,just took it in social sips.
   But they told stories enough for a volume by itself. Some of the stories were the familiar drummer-type of tale about two Irishmen, Pat and Mike, or two Jews as the case might be.
   Some were the European folk-tales undiluted, like Jack and the beanstalk. Others had slight local variations, but Negro imagination is so facile that there was little need for outside help. A'nt Hagar's son, like Joseph, put on his many colored coat and paraded before his brethren and every man there was a Joseph. 
   Stebe Nixon was holding class meeting across the way at St. Lawrence Church and we could hear the testimony and the songs. So we began to talk about church and preachers.
   "Aw, Ah don't pay all dese ole preachers no rabbit-foot," said Ellis Jones. "Some of 'em is all right but everybody dats up in de pulpit whoopin' and hollerin' ain't called to preach.
   "They ain't no different from nobody else," added B. Moseley. They mouth is cut cross ways, ain't it? Well, long as you don't see no man wid they mouth cut up and down, you know they'll all lie jus' like de rest of us."
   "Yeah; and hard work in de hot sun done called  a many a man to preach," said a woman called Gold for no evident reason. "Ah heard about one man out clearin off some new ground. De sun was so hot till a grindstone melted and run off in de shade to cool off. De man was so tired till he went and sit down on a log. 'Work, work, work! Everywhere Ah go de boss say hurry, de cap'n say run. Ah got a durn good notion not to do nary one. Wisht Ah was one of dese preachers wid a whole lotta folks makin' my support for me. ' He looked back over his shoulder and seen a narrer li'l strip of shade along side of de log, so he got over dere and laid down right close up to de log in de shade and said, 'Now Lawd if you don't pick me up and chunk me on the other side of dis log, Ah know you done called me to preach.
   "You know God never picked 'im up, so he went off and tot' everybody dat he was called to preach."
   "There's many a one been called just lak dat," Ellis corroborated. "Ah knowed a man dat was called by a mule."
   "A mule, Ellis?" said Little Ida.
    "All dem b'lieve dat, stand on they head," said Little Ida.
   "Yeah, a mule did call a man to Preach. Ah'11 show you how it was done, if you,stand a straightenin'."
   "Now, Ellis, don't mislay de truth. Sense us into dis mule callin' business."
   Ellis: 
   These was two bothers and  'one of 'em was a big Preacher and had  good collections every Sunday. He didn't pastor nothin' but big charges. De other  brother decided he wanted to preach so he went way down in de swamp behind a big plantation to de place they call de prayin' ground, and got down on his knees. ?
"O Lawd, Ah wants to preach. Ah feel lak Ah got a message.If you don   called me to preach, gimme a sign."
   Just 'bout dat time he heard a voice, "Wanh, uh wanh! Go preach, go preach, go preach! 
   He went and tol' everybody, but look lak he never could git no big charge . All he ever got called was on some saw mill , half-pint church or some turpentine still. He knocked around lak dat for ten years and then he seen his brother. De big preacher says, "Brother, you don't look like you gittin' holt of much."
    "You tellin' dat right, brother. Groceries is ain't dirtied a plate today."
   "Whut's de matter? Don't you git no support from your  church?"
   "Yeah, Ah gits it such as it is, but Ah ain't never pastored no big church. Ah don get called to nothin' but sawmill camps and turpentine stills."
   De big preacher reared back and thought a while, then he ast de other one, "is you sure you was called to preach? Maybe you ain't cut out for no preacher."
    "Oh, yeah," he told him. "Ah know Ah been called to de ministry. A voice spoke and tol'me so."
   "Well, seem lak if God called you He is mighty slow in puttin' yo' foot on de ladder.If Ah was you Ah'd go back and ast 'im again.
   So de po' man went on back to de prayin' ground agin and got down on his knees. But there wasn't no big woods like it used to be. It has been all cleared off. He prayed and said, "Oh, Lawd, right here on dis spot ten years ago Ah ast you if Ah was called to preach and a voice tole me to go preach. Since dat time Ah been strugglin' in Yo' moral vineyard, but Ah ain't gathered no grapes. Now, if you really called me to preach Christ and Him crucified, please gimme another sign."
   Sho nuff, jus' as soon as he said dat, de voice said "Wanh-uh! Go preach! Go preach! Go preach!"
   De man jumped up and says, "Ah knowed Ah been called. Dat's de same voice. Dis time Ah'm goin ter ast Him where must Ah go preach."
   By dat time de voice come agin and he looked 'way off and seen a mule in de plantation lot wid his head all stuck out to bray agin, and he said, "Unh hunh, youse de very son of a gun dat called me to preach befo'. "
   So he went on off and got a job plowin'. Dat's whut he was called to do in de first place. 
   Armetta said, "A many one been called to de plough and they run off and got up in de pulpit. Ah wish dese mules knowed how to take a pair of plow-lines and go to de church and ketch some of 'em like they go to de lot with a bridle and ketch mules."
   Ellis: 
    
Ah knowed one preacher dat was called to preach at one of dese split-off churches. De members had done split off from a big church because they was all mean and couldn't git along wid nobody.
   Dis preacher was a good man, but de congregation was so tough he couldn't make a convert in'a whole year. So he sent and invited another preacher to come and conduct a revival meeting for him. De man he ast to come was a powerful hard preacher wid a good strainin' voice. He was known to get converts.
   Well, he come and preached at dis split-off for two whole weeks. De people would all turn out to church and jus' set dere and look at de man up dere strainin' his lungs out nobody would give de man no encouragement by sayin' "Amen," and not a soul bowed down.
    It was a narrer church wid one winder and dat was in pulpit and de door was in de front end. Dey had a mean ole sexton wid a wooden leg. So de last night of de protracted meetin' de preacher come to church wid his grip sack in his hand and went on up in de pulpit. When he got up to preach he says, "Brother Sexton, dis bein' de last night of de meetin' Ah wants you to lock de do' and bring me de key. Ah want everybody to stay and hear whut At got to say.
   De sexton brought him de key and he took his tex and went to preachin'. He preached and he reared and pitched but nobody said "Amen" and nobody bowed down. So 'way after while he stooped down and opened his suitsatchel and out wid his .44 Special. "Now," he said, "you rounders and brick-bats --yeah, you women, Ah'm talkin' you. If you ain't a whole brick, den you must be a bat and gamblers and 'leven-card layers. Ah done preached to you for two whole weeks and not one of you has said 'Amen,' and nobody has bowed down."
   He thowed de gun on 'em. "And now Ah say bow down!" And they beginned to bow all over dat church.
   De sexton looked at his wooden leg and figgered he couldn't bow because his leg was cut off above de knee. S ohe ast, "Me too, Elder?"
   "Yeah, you too, you peg-leg son of a gun. You bow down too. "
   Therefo' dat sexton bent dat wooden leg and bowed down. De preacher fired a couple of shots over they heads and stepped out de window and went on 'bout his busines
   But he skeered dem people so bad till they all rushed to one side of de church tryin' to git out and carried dat church buildin' twenty-eight miles befo' they thought to turn it loose. 
   "Now Ellis," chided Gold when she was thru her laugh "You	 know dat's a lie. Folks over there in St. Lawrence din' class meetin' and you over here lyin' like de crossties from Jacksonville to Key West."
   "Naw, dat ain't no lie!" Ellis contended, still laughing himself.
   "Aw, yes it 'tis," Gold said. "Dat's all you men is good for?settin' 'round and lyin'. Some of you done quit lyin' and gone to flyin'.
   Gene Brazzle said, "Get off of us mens now. We is some good. Plenty good too if you git de right one. De trouble is you women ain't good for nothin' exceptin' readin' Sears and Roebuck's bible and hollerin' 'bout, 'gimme dis and gimme dat' as soon as we draw our pay."
   Shug said, "Well, we don't git it by astin' you mens for it. If we work for it we kin git it. You mens don't draw no pay. You don't do nothin' but stand around and draw lightnin'."
   "Ah don't say Ah'm detrimental," Gene said dryly, "but if Gold and Shug don't stop crackin' us, Ah'm gointer get 'em to go. "
   Gold: "Man, if you want me any, some or none, do whut you gointer do and stop cryin'."
   Gene: "You ain't seen me cryin'. See me cryin', it's sign of a funeral. If Ah even look cross somebody gointer bleed."
   Gold: "Aw, shut up, Gene, you ain't no big hen's biddy if you do lay gobbler eggs. You tryin' to talk like big wood when you ain't nothin' but brush."
   Armetta sensed a hard anger creepin' into the teasing so she laughed to make Gene and Gold laugh and asked, "Did y'all have any words before you fell out?"
    "We ain't mad wid one'nother," Gene defended. "We jus' jokin'."
    "Well, stop blowin' it and let de lyin' go on," said Charlie Jones. "Zora's gittin' restless. She think she ain't gointer hear  no more.
   "Oh, no Ah ain't," I lied. After a short spell of quiet, good humor was restored to the porch. In the pause we could hear Pa Henry over in the church house sending up a prayer: 
   You have been with me from the earliest rocking of my cradle up until this present moment.
You know our hearts, our Father,
And all de range of our deceitful minds,
And if you find anything like sin lurking
In and around our hearts,
Ah ast you, My Father, and my Wonder-workin' God
To pluck it out And cast it into de sea of Fuhgitfulness
Where it will never rise to harm us in dis world
Nor condemn us in de judgment.
You heard me when Ah laid at hell's dark door
With no weapon in my hand
And no God in my heart,
And cried for three long days and nights.
You heard me, Lawd,
And stooped so low
And snatched me from the hell
Of eternal death and damnation.
You cut loose my stammerin' tongue;
You established my feet on de rock of Salvation
And yo' voice was heard in rumblin' judgment.
I thank Thee that my last night's sleepin' couch
Was not my coolin' board
And my cover
Was not my windin' sheet.
Speak to de sinner-man and bless 'im.
Touch all those
Who have been down to de doors of degradation.
Ketch de man dat's layin' in danger of consumin' fire;
And Lawd,
When Ah kin pray no mo
When Ah done drunk down de last cup of sorrow
Look on me, yo' weak servant who feels de least of all;
'Point my soul a restin' place
Where Ah kin set down and praise yo' name forever
Is my prayer for Jesus sake Amen and thank God.

   As the prayer ended the bell of Macedonia, the Baptist church, began to ring.
   "Prayer meetin'night at Macedony," George Thomas said.
   "It's too bad that it must be two churches in Eatonville," I commented. "De town's too little. Everybody ought to go to one.
   "It's too bad, Zora, and you know better. Fack is, "de Christian churches nowhere don't stick together," this from Charlie.
   Everybody agreed that this was true. So Charlie went on. "Look at all de kind of denominations we got. But de people can't help dat cause de church wasn't built on no solid foundation to start wid."
   " Oh yes, it twas! " Johnnie Mae disputed him. " It was built on solid rock . Didn't Jesus say 'On dis rock Ah build my church?' " 
    "Yeah," chimed in Antie Hoyt. And de song says "On christ solid rock I stand and 'Rock of Ages.'
   Charlie was calm and patient. "Yeah, he built it on a rock,but it wasn't solid.  It was a pieced-up rock and that's how come  de church split up now. Here's de very way it was:
    
   Christ was walkin' long one day wid all his disciples and he said, "We're goin' for a walk today. Everybody pick up a rock and come along." So everybody got their selves a nice big rock 'ceptin' Peter. He was lazy so he picked up a li'l bit of a pebble and dropped it in his side pocket and come along.
   Well, they walked all day long and de other 'leven disciples changed them rocks from one arm to de other but they kept on totin' 'em. Long towards sundown they come 'long by de Sea of Galilee and Jesus tole 'em, "Well, le's fish awhile. Cast in yo' nets right here." They done like he tole ,em and caught a great big mess of fish. Then they cooked ,em and Christ said, "Now, all y'all bring up yo' rocks." So they all brought they rocks and Christ turned 'em into bread and they all had a plenty to eat wid they fish exceptin' Peter. He couldn't hardly make a moufful offa de li'l bread he had and he didn't like dat a bit.
   Two or three days after dat Christ went out doors and looked up at de sky and says, "Well, we're goin' for an other walk today. Everybody git yo'self a rock and come along."
   They all picked up a rock apiece and was ready to go. All but Peter. He went and tore down half a mountain. It was so big he couldn't move it wid his hands. He had to take a pinch-bar to move it. All day long Christ walked and talked to his disciples and Peter sweated and strained wid dat rock of his'n.
   Way long in de evenin' Christ went up under a great big ole tree and set down and called all of his disciples around 'irn and said, "Now everybody bring up yo' rocks."
   So everybody brought theirs but Peter. Peter was about mile down de road punchin' dat half a mountain he was bringin'. So Christ waited till he got dere. He looked at de rocks dat de other 'leven disciples had, den he seen dis great big mountain dat Peter had and so he got up and walked over to it and put one foot up on it and said, "Why  Peter, dis is a fine rock you got here! It's a noble rock! And Peter, on dis rock Ab'm gointer build my church."
   Peter says, "Naw you ain't neither. You won't build no church house on dis rock. You gointer turn dis rock into bread. "
   Christ knowed dat Peter meant dat thing so he turnt de hillside into bread and dat mountain is de bread he fed de 5,000 wid. Den he took dem 'leven other rocks and glued 'em together and built his church on it.
    And that's how come de Christian churches is split up into so many different kinds cause it's built on pieced-up rock.

   There was a storm of laughter following Charlie's tale. "Zora, You come talkin' bout puttin'de two churches together and not havin' but one in dis town," Armetta said chidingly. "You know better'n dat. Baptis' and Methdis ' always got a pick out at one 'nother. One time two preachers-one Methdis' an de other one Baptis' wuz on uh train and de engine blowed up and bein' in de colored coach right back of de engine they got blowed up too. When they saw theyself startin' up in de air de Baptis' preacher hollered, 'Ah bet Ah go higher than you!'"
   Then Gold spoke up and said, "Now, lemme tell one. Ah know one about a man as black as Gene."
   "Whut you always crackin'me for?" Gene wanted to know. "Ah ain't a bit blacker than you."
    "Oh, yes you is, Gene. Youse a whole heap blacker than Ah is. "
   "Aw, go head on, Gold. Youse blacker than me. You jus, look MY color cause youse fat. If You wasn't no fatter than me You'd be so black till lightnin' bugs would follow you at twelve o'clock in cle day, thinkin' it's midnight."
   "Dat's a lie, youse blacker than Ah ever dared to be. Youse lam' black. Youse so black till they have to throw a sheet over yo' head so de sun kin rise every mornin'. Ah know yo' ma cried when she seen you. "
    "Well, anyhow, Gold, Youse blacker than me. If Ah was as fat as You Ah'd be a yaller man. 
    " Youse a liar. Youse as yaller as you ever gointer git. When a person is Poor he look bright and de fatter You git de darker you look.
    "Is dat Yo' excuse for being so black, Gold?"
   Armetta soothed Gold's feelings and stopped the war. When the air cleared Gold asked, "Do y'all know how come we are black?"
   "Yeah," said Ellis. "It's because two black niggers got together. "
   "Aw, naw," Gold disputed Petulantly. "Well, since you so smart, tell me where dem two black niggers come from in de first beginnin'. "
   "They Musta come from Zar and dat's on the other side of far. "
    " Uh, hunh! " Gold gloated. "Ah knowed you didn't know whut you was talkin'about. Now Ah'm goin to ter tell you how come we so black:
   Long before they got thru makin' de Atlantic Ocean and  haulin' de rocks for de mountains, God was makin' up de people.  But He didn't finish 'em all at one time. Ah'm compelled to say dat some folks is walkin' 'round dis town right now ain't finished yet and never will be.
Well, He give out eyes one day. All de nations come up and got they eyes. Then He give out teeth and so on. Then He set a day to give out color. So seven o'clock dat mornin' everybody was due to git they color except de niggers. So God give everybody they color and they' went on off. Then He set there for three hours and onehalf and no niggers. It was gettin' hot and God wanted to git His work done and go set' in de cool. So He sent de angels. Rayfield and Gab'ull to go get 'em so He could tend some mo' business.
   They hunted all over Heben till dey found de colored folks. All stretched out sleep on de grass under de tree of life. So Rayfield woke 'em up and tole 'em God wanted ,em.
    They all jumped up and run on up to de th'one and they was so skeered they might miss sumpin' they begin to push and shove one 'nother, bumpin' against all de angels and turnin' over foot-stools. They even had de th'one all pushed one-sided.
   So God hollered "Git back! Git back!" And they misunderstood Him and thought He said, "Git black," and they been black ever since.

   Gene rolled his eyeballs into one corner of his head. "Now Gold call herself gettin' even wid me--tellin' dat lie. 'Tain't no such a story nowhere. She jus' made dat one up herself.
   "Naw, she didn't," Armetta defended. "Ah been knowin' dat ole tale."
    "Me too," said Shoo-pie. "Don't you know you can't git de best of no woman in de talkin' game? Her tongue is all de weapon a woman got," George Thomas chided Gene. "She could have had mo' sense, but she told God no, she'd ruther take it out in hips. So God give her her ruthers. She got plenty hips, plenty mouf and no brains. "
   "Oh, yes, womens is got sense too,',' Mathilda Moseley jumped in. "But they got too much sense to go 'round braggin "about it like y'all do. De lady people always got de advantage of mens because God fixed it dat way."
   "Whut ole black advantage is y'all got?" B. Moseley asked, indignantly. "We got all cle strength and all de law and all de money and you can't git a thing but whut we jes' take pity on you and give you." 
   "And dat's jus' de point," said Mathilda triumphantly. "You do give it to us, but how come you do it?"
   And without  waiting for an answer Mathilda began to tell why women always take advantage of men.
   You see in de very first days, God made a man and a woman and put "em in a house together to live. 'Way back in them days de woman was just as strong as de man and both of 'em did de same things. They useter get to fussin 'bout who gointer do this and that and sometime they'd fight, but they was even balanced and neither one could whip de other one.
   One day de man said to hisself, "B'Iieve Ah'm gointer go see God and ast Him for a li'l mo' strength so Ah kin whip dis 'oman and make her mind. Ah'm tired of de wa things is." So he went on up to God.
   "Good mawnin', Ole Father."
   "Howdy man. Whut you doin' 'round my throne so so dis mawnin'?"
    "Ah'm troubled in mind, and nobody can't ease mah spirit 'ceptin' you."
    God said: "Put yo' plea in de right form and Ah'll hear and answer."
   "Ole Maker, wid de mawnin' stars glitterin' in yo' shin crown, wid de dust from yo' footsteps makin' worlds upo worlds, wid de blazin' bird we call de sun flyin' out of you right hand in de mawnin' and consumin' all day de flesh and blood of stump-black darkness, and comes flyin' home every evenin  to rest on yo' left hand, and never once in yo' eternal years, mistood de left hand for de right, Ah ast you please to give me mo' strength than dat woman you give me, so Ah kin make her mind. Ah know you don't want to be always comin' down way past de moon and stars to be straightenin' her out and its got to be done. So giv me a li'l mo' strength, Ole Maker and Ah'll do it."
   "All right, Man, you got mo' strength than woman."
   So de man run all de way down de stairs from Heben he got home. He was so anxious to try his strength on de woman dat he couldn't take his time. Soon's he got in de house he hollered "Woman! Here's yo' boss. God done tole me to handle you in which ever way yo' boss."'
   De woman flew to fightin' 'im right off. She fought 'im frightenin' but he beat her. She got her wind and tried 'irn agin but he whipped her agin. She got herself together and made de third try on him vigorous but he beat her every time. He was so proud he could whip 'er at last, dat he just crowed over her and made her do a lot of things she didn't like. He told her, "Long as you obey me, Ah'Il be good to yuh, but every time yuh rear up Ah'm gointer put plenty wood on yo' back and plenty water in yo'  eyes. 
    De woman was so mad she went straight up to Heben and stood befo' de Lawd. She didn't waste no words. She said, "Lawd, Ah come befo' you mighty mad t'day. Ah want back my strength and power Ah useter have."
   "Woman, you got de same power you had since de beginnin'."
    "Why is it then, dat de man kin beat me now and he useter couldn't do it?"
    "He got mo' strength than he useter have, He come and ast me for it and Ah give it to 'im. Ah gives to them that ast, and you ain't never ast me for no mo' power."
    "Please suh, God, Ah'm astin' you for it now. jus' gimme de same as you give him."
   God shook his head. "It's too late now, woman. Whut Ah give, Ah never take back. Ah give him mo' strength than you and no matter how much Ah give you, he'll have mo.
   De woman was so mad she wheeled around and went on off. She went straight to de devil and told him what had happened.
   He said, " Don't be disincouraged, woman. You listen to me and you'll come out mo' than conqueror. Take dem frowns out yo' face and turn round and go fight on back to Heben and ast God to give you dat bunch of keys hangin' by de mantel-piece. Then you bring 'em and Ah'll show you what to do wid 'em."
   So de woman climbed back up to Heben agin. She was mighty tired but she was more out-done that she was tired so she climbed all night long and got back up to Heben. When she got to heaven butter wouldn't melt in her mouf.
   "0 Lawd and Master of de rainbow, Ah know yo' power. You never make two mountains without you put a valley in between. Ah know you kin hit a straight lick wid a crooked stick."
    "Ast for whut you want, woman."
    "God, gimme dat bunch of keys hangin' by yo' mantel befo' de throne."
   "Take em."
   So de woman took de keys and hurried on back to de devil wid 'em. There was three keys on de bunch. Devil say, "See dese three keys? They got mo' power in 'em than all de strength de man kin ever git if you handle 'em right. Now dis first big key is to de do' of de kitchen, and you know a man always favors his stomach. Dis second one is de key to de bedroom and he don't like to be shut out from dat neither and dis last key is de key to de cradle and he don't want to be cut off from his generations at all. So now you take dese keys and go lock up everything and wait till he come to you. Then don't you unlock nothin' until he use his strength for yo' benefit and yo' desires."
   De woman thanked 'im and tole 'im, "If it wasn't for you, Lawd knows whut us po' women folks would do."
   She started off but de devil halted her. "Jus' one mo' thing: don't go home braggin' 'bout yo' keys. jus' lock up everything and say nothin' until you git asked. And then don't talk too much."
   De woman went on home and did like de devil tole her. When de man come home from work she was settin' on de porch singin' some song 'bout "Peck on de wood make de bed go good."
   When de man found de three doors fastened what useter stand wide open he swelled up like pine lumber after a rain. First thing he tried to break in cause he figgered his strength would overcome all obstacles. When he saw he couldn't do it, he ast de woman, "Who locked dis do'?"
    She tole 'im, "Me."
    "Where did you git de key from?"
   "God give it to me.
   He run up to God and said, "God, woman got me. locked 'way from my vittles, my bed and my generations, and she say you give her the keys."
    God said, "I did, Man, Ah give her de keys, but de devil showed her how to use 'em!"
   "Well, Ole Maker, please gimme some keys jus' lak 'em so she can't git de full control."
   "No, Man, what Ah give Ah give. Woman got de key."
   "How kin Ah know 'bout my generations.
    "Ast de woman."
   So de man come on back and submitted hisself to de woman and she opened de doors. He wasn't satisfied but he had to give in. 'Way after while he said to de woman, "Le's us divide up. Ah'Il give you half of my strength if you lemme hold de keys in my hands."
   De woman thought dat over so de devil popped and tol her, "Tell 'im, naw. Let 'im keep his strength and you keep y' keys." 
    So de woman wouldn't trade wid 'im and de man had to mortgage his strength to her to live. And dat's why de man makes and de woman takes. You men is still braggin' 'bout yo' strength and de women is sittin' on de keys and lettin' you blow off till she git ready to put de bridle on you.

   B. Moseley looked over at Mathilda and said, "You just like a hen in de barnyard. You cackle so much you give de rooster de blues."
    Mathilda looked over at him archly and quoted:
   Stepped on a pin, de pin bent  
And dat's de way de story went.
   "Y'all lady people ain't smarter than all men folks. You got plow lines on some of us, but some of us is too smart . for, you. We go past you jus' like lightnin' thru de trees," Willie Sewell boasted. "And what make it so cool, we close enough to You to have a scronchous time, but never no halter on our necks. Ah know they won't git none on dis last neck of mine."
   "Oh, you kin be had," Gold retorted. "Ah mean dat abstifically."
   "Yeah? But not wid de trace chains. Never no shack up. Ah want dis tip-in love and tip yo' hat and walk out. Ah don't want nobody to have dis dyin' love for me."
   Richard Jones said: "Yeah, man. Love is a funny thing; love is a blossom. If you want yo' finger bit poke it at a possum.
   Jack Oscar Jones, who had been quiet for some time, slumped way down in his chair, straightened up and said, "Ah know a speech about love."
   Ruth Marshall laughed doubtfully. "Now, Jack, you can't make me b'lieve you know de first thing about no love."
   "Yeah he do, too," Clara, Jack's wife defended.
    "Whut do he know, then?" Ruth persisted. "Aw, Lawd,"
   Clara wagged her head knowingly. "You ain't got no business knowing dat. Dat's us business. But he know jus' as much about love as de nex' man."
   "You don't say!" Johnnie Mae twitted her sister-in-law. "Blow it out, then, Jack, and tell a blind man somethin'. "
    "Ah'm gointer say it, then me and Zora's goin' out to Montgomery and git up a cool watermelon, ain't we, Zora?"
    "If you got de price," I came back. "Ah got de car so al we need is a strong determination and we'll have melon."
   "No, Zora ain't goin' nowhere wid my husband," Clara announced. "If he got anything to tell her it's gointer be right here in front of me."
   Jack laughed at Clara's feigned jealousy and recited:
   When the clock struck one I had just begun.
   Begun with Sue, begun with Sal, begun with that pretty Johnson gal.
   When the clock struck two, I was through, I was through with Sue, through with Sal, through with that pretty Johnson gal.
    When the clock struck three I was free, free with Sue, free with Sal, free with that pretty Johnson gal.
   When the clock struck four I was at the door, at the door with Sue, at the door with Sal, at the door with that pretty Johnson gal.
    When the clock struck five I was alive, alive with Sue, alive with Sal, alive with that pretty Johnson gal.
   When the clock struck six I was fixed, fixed with Sue, fixed with Sal, fixed with that pretty Johnson gal.
   When the clock struck seven I was even, even with Sue, even with Sal, even with that pretty Johnson gal.
   When the clock struck eight I was at your gate, gate with Sue, gate with Sal, gate with that pretty Johnson gal.
   When the clock struck nine I was behind, behind with Sue, behind with Sal, behind with that pretty Johnson gal.
   When the clock struck ten I was in the bin, in the bin with Sue, in the bin with Sal, in the bin with that pretty Johnson gal.
   When the clock struck eleven, I was in heaven, in heaven with Sue, in heaven with Sal, in heaven with that pretty Johnson gal.
   When the clock struck twelve I was in hell, in hell with Sue, in hell with Sal, in hell with that pretty Johnson gal.

   "Who was all dis Sue and dis Sal and dat pretty Johnson gal?" Clara demanded of Jack.
   "Dat ain't for you to know. My name is West, and Ah'm so different from de rest."
   "You sound like one man courtin' three gals, but Ah know a story 'bout three mens courtin' one gal," Shug commented
   "Dat's bogish," cried Bennie Lee thickly.
   "Whut's bogish?" Shug demanded. She and Bennie were step-brother and sister and they had had a lawsuit over the property of his late father and her late mother, so a very little of Bennie's sugar would sweeten Shug's tea and vice versa.
   "Ah don't want to lissen to no ole talk 'bout three mens after no one 'oman. It's always more'n three womens after every man.
   "Well, de way Ah know de story, there was three mens after de same girl," Shug insisted. "You drunk, Bennie Lee. You done drunk so much of dis ole coon dick till you full of monkies."
   "Whut you gointer do?" Bennie demanded. "Whut you gointer do?"
    No answer was expected to this question. It was just Bennie Lee's favorite retort. "De monkies got me, now whut you gointer do?"
    "Ah ain't got you to study about, Bennie Lee. If God ain't payin' you no mo' mind than Ah is, youse in hell right now. Ah ain't talkin' to you nohow. Zora, you wanter hear dis story?"
    "Sure, Shug. That's what Ah'm here for."
    "Somebody's gointer bleed," Bennie Lee threatened. Nobody paid him any mind.
   "God knows Ah don't wanter hear Shug tell nothin'," Bennie Lee complained. "Ah wish yo' monkies would tell you to go hide in de hammock and forgit to tell you de way home. "
   ]Shug was getting peeved. "You better shut up befo'Ah whip yo'head to de red. Ah wish Ah was God. Ah'd turn you into a blamed hawg, and then Ah'd concrete de whole world over so you wouldn't have not one nary place to root."
    "Dat's dat two-bits in change you got in yo' pocket now dat's talkin' for you. But befo' de summer's over you'll be rootin' lak a hawg. You already lookin'over plus lak one now. Don't you worry 'bout me." Bennie Lee tried to ask his well-known question but the coon dick was too strong. He mumbled down into his shirt bosom and went to sleep.
   Youse in de majority, now Shug," B. Moseley said, seeing Bennie asleep. "Le's hear 'bout dat man wid three women." Shug said:
   Naw, it was three mens went to court a girl, Ah told you. Dis was a real pretty girl wid shiny black hair and coal black eyes. And all dese men wanted to marry her, so they all went and ast her pa if they could have her. He looked 'em all over, but he couldn't decide which one of 'em would make de best husband and de girl, she couldn't make up her mind, so one Sunday night when he walked into de parlor where they was all sittin' and said to 'em, "Well, all y'all want to marry my daughter and youse all good men and Ah can't decide which one will make her de best husband. So y'all be here tomorrow mornin' at daybreak and we'll have a contest and de one dat can do de quickest trick kin have de girl."
Nex' mornin' de first one got up seen it wasn't no water in de bucket to cook breakfas' wid. So he tole de girl's mama to give him de water bucket and he would go to the spring and git her some.
   He took de bucket in his hand and then he found out dat de spring was ten miles off. But he said he didn't mind dat. He went on and dipped up de water and hurried on back wid it. When he got to de five-mile post he looked down into de bucket and seen dat de bottom had done dropped out. Then he recollected dat he heard somethin' fall when he dipped up de water so he turned round and run back to de spring and clapped in dat bottom before de water had time to spill.
   De ole man thought dat was a pretty quick trick, but de second man says, "Wait a minute. Ah want a grubbin' hoe and a axe and a plow and a harrow." So he got everything he ast for. There was ten acres of wood lot right nex' to de house. He went out dere and chopped down all de trees grubbed up de roots, ploughed de field, harrowed it, planted it in cowpeas, and had green peas for dinner.
   De ole man says "Dat's de quickest trick. Can't nobod beat dat. No use in tryin'. He done won de girl."
   De last man said, "You ain't even givin' me a chance to win de girl."
   So he took his high powered rifle and went out into de woods about seben or eight miles until he spied a deer. He took aim and fired. Then he run home, run round behind de house and set his gun down and then run back out in de woods and caught de deer and held 'im till de bullet hit 'im.
   So he won de girl.
   Robert Williams said:
   Ah know another man wid a daughter.
   The man sent his daughter off to school for seben years, den she come home all finished up. So he said to her, "Daughter, git yo' things and write me a letter to my brother!" So she did.
   He says, "Head it up," and she done so.
   "Now tell 'im, 'Dear Brother, our chile is done come home from school and all finished up and we is very proud of her. ' "
   Then he ast de girl "Is you got dat?"
   She tole 'im "yeah."
   "Now tell him some mo'. 'Our mule is dead but Ah got another mule and when Ah say (clucking sound of tongue and teeth) he moved from de word.'
   "Is you got dat?" he ast de girl. Naw suh," she tole 'im.
   He waited a while and he ast her again, "You got dat down yet?"
   "Naw suh, Ah ain't got it yet."
   "How come you ain't got it?"
   "Cause Ah can't spell (clucking sound)."
   "You mean to tell me you been off to school seben year and can't spell (clucking sound)? Why Ah could spell dat myself and Ah ain't been to school a day in mah life. Well jes' say (clucking sound) he'll know what yo' mean and go on wid de letter."

   Henry "Nigger" Byrd said:
   I know one about a letter too.
   My father owned a fas' horse--I mean a fast horse. We was livin' in Ocala then. Mah mother took sick and mah father come and said, "Skeet," he uster call me Skeet, "You oughter wire yo' sister in St. Petersburg."
   "I jus' wired her," I tole him.
   "Whut did you put in it?"
   I tole 'im.
   He says, "Dat ain't right. I'm goin' ketch it." He went out in de pasture. and caught de horseand shod 'im and curried 'im and brushed 'im off good, put de saddle on 'it and got on 'im, and caught dat telegram and read it and took it on to mah sister.
   Soon as he left de house, mama said, "You chillun mak a fire in de stove and fix somethin' for de ole man to eat.
   Befo' she could git de word out her mouf, him and ma sister rode up to de do' and said "Whoa!"
   By dat time a flea ast me for a shoeshine so I left.

   Armetta said: "Nigger, I didn't know you could lie that.
   "I ain't lyin', Armetta. We had dat horse. We had a cow to and she was so swaybacked that she could use de bushy par of her tail for a umbrella over her head."
   "Shet up, Nig"' "Seaboard" Hamilton pretended to be outraged.
   "Ah knowed you could sing barytone but ah wouldn't a b'lieved de lyin' was in you if Ah didn't hear you myself. Whut makes you bore wid such a great big augur?
   Little Julius Henry, who should have been home in be spoke up. "Mah brother John had a horse 'way back dere in slavery time.
   "Let de dollars hush whilst de nickel speak," ChaCharlienes derided Julius' youth. "Julius, whut make you wanta jump in a hogshead when a kag will hold yuh? You hear dese har ole coons lyin' up a nation and you stick in yo' bill. "If his mouf is cut cross. ways and he's two years ole, he kin lie good as anybody else," John French defended. "Blow it,Julius. "
   Julius spat out into the yard, trying to give the impression that he was skeeting tobacco juice like a man.
   De rooster chew t'backer, de hen dip snuff.
De biddy can't do it, but he struts his stuff.
   Ole John, he was workin' for Massa and Massa had two hawses and he lakted John, so he give John one of his hawses.
   When John git to workin' 'em he'd haul off and beat Massa's hawse, but he never would hit his'n. So then some white folks tole ole Massa 'bout John beatin' his hawse and never beatin' his own. So Massa tole John if he ever heard tell of him layin' a whip on his hawse agin he was gointer take and kill John's hawse dead as a nit.
   John tole 'im, "Massa, if you kill my hawse, Ah'll beatcher makin' money."
   One day John hit ole Massa's hawse agin. Dey went and tole Massa' bout it. He come down dere where John was haulin' trash, wid a great big ole knife and cut John's hawse's th'oat and he fell dead.
   John jumped down off de wagon and skint his hawse, and tied de hide up on a stick and throwed it cross his shoulder, and went on down town.
   Ole John was a fortune teller hisself but nobody 'round dere didn't know it. He met a man and de man ast John, "Whut's dat you got over yo' shoulder dere, John?"
   "It's a fortune teller, boss."
   "Make it talk some, John, and I'll give you a sack of money and a hawse and saddle, and five head of cattle."
   John put de hide on de ground and pulled out de stick and hit 'cross de hawse hide and hold his head down dere to lissen.
   "Dere's a man in yo' bedroom behind de bed talkin' to yo, wife."
   De man went inside his house to see. When he come back out he said, "Yeah, John, you sho tellin' de truth. Make him talk some mo'."
   John went to puttin' de stick back in de hide. "Naw, Massa, he's, tired now."
   De white man says, "Ah'll give you six head of sheeps and fo' hawses and fo' sacks of money."
   John pulled out de stick and hit down on de hide and hold down his head to lissen.
   "It's a man in yo' kitchen openin' yo' stove." De man went back into his house and come out agin and tole John, "Yo, fortuneteller sho is right. Here's de things Ah promised you. "
   John rode on past Ole Massa's house wid all his sacks of money and drivin' his sheeps and cattle, whoopin' and crackin' his whip. "Yee, whoo-pee, yee!" Crack!
   Massa said, "John, where did you git all dat?"
   John said, "Ah tole you if you kilt mah hawse Ah'd beatcher makin' money."
   Massa said to 'im, "Reckon if Ah kilt mah hawse Ah'd make dat much money?"
   "Yeah, Massa, Ah reckon so."
   So ole Massa went out and kilt his hawse and went to town hollerin', "Hawse hide for sale! Hawse hide for sale!"
   One man said, "Hold on dere. Ah'll give you twobits for it to bottom some chears."
   Ole Massa tole 'im, "Youse crazy!" and went on hollerin' "Hawse hide for sale!",
   "Ah'Il gi' you twenty cents for it to cover some chears another man said.
   "You must be stone crazy! Why, dis hide is worth five thousand dollars."
   De people all laughed at 'im so he took his hawse hide and throwed it away and went and bought hisself another hawse.
   Ole John, he already rich, he didn't have to work, but he jus' love to fool 'round hawses so he went to drivin' hawse, and buggy for Massa. And when nobody wasn't wid him, John would let his grandma ride in Massa's buggy. Dey tole ole Massa 'bout it and he said, "John, Ah hear you been had yo'grandma ridin' in mah buggy. De first time Ah ketch her in it, Ah'm gointer kill 'er."
   John tole 'im, "If you kill my grandma, Ah'Il beatcher makin' money.
   Pretty soon some white folks tole Massa dat John was takin' his gran'ma to town in his buggy and was hittin' his hawse and showin' off. So ole Massa come out dere and cut John's gran'ma's th'oat.
   So John buried his gran'ma in secret and went and got his same ole hawse hide and keered it up town agin and went 'round talkin' 'bout, "Fortuneteller, fortuneteller!"
   One man tole 'im, "Why, John, make it talk some for me. Ah'Il give you six head of goats, six sheeps, and a hawse and a saddle to ride 'im wid."
   So John made it talk and de man was pleased so he give John more'n he, promised 'im, and John went on back past Massa's house, wid his stuff so ole Massa could see 'im.
   Ole Massa run out and ast, "Oh, John, where did you git, all dat?"
   John said, "Ah tole you if you kill mah gran'ma Ah'd beatcher makin' money."
   Massa said, "You reckon if Ah kill mine, Ah'll make all dat?"
   "Yeah, Ah reckon so."
   So Massa runned and cut his granma's th'oat and went up town hollerin' "gran'ma for sale! gran'ma for sale!"
   Wouldn't nobody break a breath wid him. Dey thought he was crazy. He went on back home and grabbed John and tole 'im, "You made me kill my gran'ma and my good hawse and Ah'm gointer throw you in de river."
   John tole 'im, "If you throw me in de river, Ah'Il beatcher makin' money."
   "Naw you won't neither," Massa tole 'im. "You done made yo' last money and done yo' las' do."
   He got ole John in de sack and keered 'im down to de river, but he done forgot his weights, so he went back home to git some.
   While he was gone after de weights a toad frog come by dere and John seen 'im. So he hollered and said, "Mr. Hoptoad, if you open dis sack and let me out Ah'Il give you a dollar."
   Toad frog let 'im out, so he got a softshell turtle and put it in de sack wid two big ole bricks. Then ole Massa got his weights and come tied 'em on de sack and throwed it in d river.
   Whilst Massa was down to de water foolin' wid dat sack, John had done got out his hawse hide and went on up town agin hollerin', "Fortuneteller! Fortuneteller!"
   One rich man said "Make it talk for me, John."
   John pulled out de stick and hit on de hide, and put his ear down. "Uh man is in yo' smokehouse stealin' meat an another one is in yo' moneysafe."
   De man went inside to see and when he come back he said, "You sho kin tell de truth."
   So John went by Massa's house on a new hawse, wid a sack of money tied on each side of de saddle. Ole Massa seen 'im and ast, "Oh, John, where'd you git all dat?"
   "Ah tole you if you throw me in de river Ah'd beatcher makin' money?"
   Massa ast, "Reckon if Ah let you throw me in de river, Ah'd make all dat?"
   "Yeah, Massa, Ah know so."
   John got ole Massa in de sack and keered 'im down to de river. John didn't forgit his weights. He put de weights on ole Massa and jus' befo' he throwed 'im out he said, "Goodbye, Massa, Ah hope you find all you lookin' for."
   And dat wuz de las' of ole Massa.

   "Dat wuz a long tale for a li'l boy lak you," George Thomas praised Julius.
   "Ah knows a heap uh tales," Julius retorted.
   Whut is de workinest pill you ever seen? Lemme tell you whut kind of a pill it was and how much it worked.
   It wuz a ole man one time and he had de rheumatism so bad he didn't know what to do. Ah tole 'im to go to town and git some of dem conthartic pills.
   He went and got de pills lak Ah tole 'im, but on his way back he opened de box and went to lookin' at de pills. He wuz comin' cross some new ground where dey hadn't even started to dear up de land. He drop one of de pills but he didn't bother to pick it up skeered he might hurt his back stoopin' over.
   He got to de house and say, "Ole lady, look down yonder whut a big smoke! Whut is dat, nohow?"
   She say, "Ah don't know."
   "Well," he say. "Guess Ah better walk down dere and see whut dat big smoke is down dere."
   He come back. "Guess whut it is, ole lady? One of dem conthartic pills done worked all dem roots out de groun and got 'em burning!"

   "Julius, you little but you loud. Dat's a over average lie you  tole," Shug laughed. "Lak de wind Ah seen on de East Coast. It blowed a crooked road straight and blowed a well up out ground and blowed and blowed until it scattered de days of de week so bad till Sunday didn't come till late Tuesday evenin'."
"Shug, Whuss yuh gonna do?" Bennie Lee tried to rise to the surface but failed and slumped back into slumber. 
"A good boy, but a po' boy," somebody commented as, John French made his mind up. 
"Zora, Ah'm gointer tell one, but you be sho and tell de folks Ah tole it. Don't say Seymore said it because he took you on de all day fishin' trip to Titusville. Don't say Seaboard Hamilton tole it 'cause he always give you a big hunk of arbecue when you go for a sandwich. Give ole John French whut's comin' to 'im." 
"You gointer tell it or you gointer spend de night tellin' us you gointer tell it?" I asked.
Ah got to say a piece of litery (literary) fust to git mah wind on.  
Well Ah went up on dat meatskin  
And Ah come down on dat bone  
And Ah grabbed dat piece of cornbread  
And Ah made dat biscuit moan.  
   Once a man had two sons. One was name Jim and de, other one dey call him Jack for short. Dey papa was a most rich man, so he called de boys to 'im one night and tole 'em, "Ah don't want y'all settin' 'round waitin' for me tuh die tuh git whut Ah'm gointer give yuh. Here's five hundred dollars apiece. Dat's yo' sheer of de proppity. Go put yo'selves on de ladder. Take and make men out of yourselves."
   Jim took his and bought a big farm and a pair of mules and settled down.
   Jack took his money and went on down de road skinnin' and winnin'. He won from so many mens till he had threbbled his money. Den he met a man says, "Come on, le's skin some." De man says "Money on de wood" and he laid down a hundred dollars.
   Jack looked at de hurid'ud dollars and put down five hund'ud and says, "Man, Ah ain't for no spuddin'. You playin' wid yo' stuff out de winder. You fat 'round de heart. Bet some money.
   De other man covered Jack's money and dey went to skinnin'. Jack was dealin' and he thought he seen de other man on de turn so he said, Five hund'ud mo' my ten spot is de bes'."
   De man covered Jack's money and dey went skinnin'. Jack was dealin' and he though he seen de other man on de turn so he said, "Five hund'ud mo' my ten spot is de bes'."
   De man covered 'im and Jack slapped down another five hund'ud and said,  "Five hund'ud mo' you fall dis  time."
   De other man never said a word. He put down five hund'ud mo'.
   Jack got to singin':
   "When yo' card git-uh lucky, oh pardner you oughter be in a rollin I game."
   He flipped de card and bless God it wuz de ten spot' Jack had done fell hisself instead of de other man. He was all put out.
   Says, "Well, Ah done los' all mah money so de game is through."
   De other man say, "We kin still play on. Ah'll bet you all de money on de table against yo' life."
   Jack agreed to play 'Cause he figgered he could outshoot and outcut any man on de road and if de man tried to kill bim he'd git kilt hisself. So dey shuffled agin and Jack pulled a card and it fell third in hand.
   Den de man got up and he was twelve foot tall and Jack was so skeered he didn't know whut to do. De man looked down on 'im and tole 'im says, "De Devil is mah'name and Ah live across de deep blue sea. Ah could kill you right now, but Ah'll give Yuh another chance. If you git to my house befo' de sun sets and rise agin Ah won't kill yuh, but if you don't Ah'll be compelled to take yo' life."
   Den he vanished.
   Jack went on down de road jus' a cryin' till he met uh ole man.
   Says,"Whuss de matter, Jack?"
   Says,
   "Ah played skin wid de Devil for mah life and he winned and tole me if Ah ain't to his house by de time de  sun sets and rise agin he's gointer take mah life, and he live  way across de ocean."
   De ole man says,"You sho is in a bad fix, Jack. Dere ain't but one thing dat kin cross de ocean in dat time."
   ,'Whut is dat?
   "It's uh  bald eagle. She come down to de edge of de ocean every mornin' and dip herself in de sea and pick off all de dead feathers. When she dip herself de third time and pick herself she rocks herself and spread her wings and mount de sky and go straight across de deep blue sea. And every time she holler, you give her piece uh dat yearlin' or she'll eat you.
   "Now if you could be dere wid a yearlin' bull and when she git thru dippin' and pick herself and rock to mount de sky and jump straddle of her back wid dat bull yearlin' you could make it."
   Jack wuz dere wid de yearlin' waitin' for dat eagle to come. He wuz watchin' her from behind, de bushes and seen her when she come out de water and picked off de dead feather and rocked to go on high.
   He jumped on de eagle's back wid his yearlin and de eagle was out flyin' de sun. After while she turned her head from side to side and her blazin' eyes lit up first de north den de south and she hollered, "Ah?h?h, Ah, ah! One quarter cross de ocean! Don't see nothin' but blue water, uh!"
   Jack was so skeered dat instead of him givin' de eagle uh quarter of de meat, he give her de whole bull. After while she say, "Ah?h?h, ah, ah! One half way cross de ocean! Don't see nothin' but blue water!"
   Jack didn't have no mo' meat so he tore off one leg and give it to her. She swallowed dat and flew on. She hollered agin, "Ah,ha. Ah, ha! Mighty nigh cross de ocean' Don't see nothin' but blue water' uh"'
   Jack tore off one arm and give it to her and she et dat and pretty soon she lit on land and Jack jumped off and de eagle flew on off to her nest.
   Jack didn't know which way de Devil lived so he ast. "Dat first big white house 'round de bendin de road," dey tole 'im.
   Jack walked to de Devil's house and knocked on de do'.
   "Who's dat?"
   "One of de Devil's friends. One widout uh arm and widout uh leg."
   Devil tole his wife, says: "Look behind de do' and hand dat man uh arm and leg." She give Jack de arm and leg and Jack put 'em on.
   Devil says, "See you got here in time for breakfas'. But Ah got uh job for yuh befo' you eat. Ah got uh hund'ud acres uh new ground ain't never had uh brush cut on it. Ah want you to go out dere and cut down, all de trees and brushes, grub up all de roots and pile 'em and bum 'em befo' dinner time. If you don't, Ah'Il hafta take yo' life."
   Jus' 'bout dat time de Devil's chillen come out to look at Jack and he seen he had one real pretty daughter, but Jack wuz too worried to think 'bout no girls. So he took de tools and went on out to de wood lot and went to work.
   By de time he chopped down one tree he wuz tired and he knowed it would take 'im ten years to dear dat ground right, so Jack set down and went to cryin'. 'Bout dat time de Devil's pretty daughter come wid his breakfas'. "Whuss de matter, Jack?"
   "Yo papa done gimme uh job he know Ah can't git through wid, and he's gonna take mah life and Ah don't wanna die."
   "Eat yo' breakfas'Jack, and put yo' head in mah lap and go to sleep."
   Jack done lak she tole 'im and went to sleep and when he woke up every tree was down, every bush and de roots grubbed up and burnt. Look lak never had been a blade uh grass dere.
   De Devil come out to see how Jack wuz makin' out and seen dat hundred acres deaned off so nice and said, "Uh, huh, Ah see youse uh wise man, 'most wise as me. Now Ah got another job for yuh. Ah got uh well, uh hundred feet deep and Ah want yuh to dip it dry. Ah mean dry, Ah want it so dry till Ah kin see dust from it and den Ah want you to bring me whut you find at de bottom."
   Jack took de bucket and went to de well and went to work but he seen dat de water wuz comin' in faster dan he could draw it out. So he sat down and begin to cry.
   De Devil's daughter come traipsin long wid Jack's dinner and seen Jack settin' down cryin'. "Whuss de matter, Jack? Don't cry lak dat lessen you wanta make me cry too."
   Yo' pa done put me to doin' somethin' he know Ah can't never finish and if Ah don't git thru he is gonna take mah life.
   "Eat yo' dinner, Jack and put yo' head in mah lap and go to sleep.
   Jack done lak she tole 'im and when he woke up de well wuz so dry till red dust wuz boilin' out of it lak smoke. De girl handed 'im a ring and tole 'im "Give papa dis ring. Dat's whut he wanted. It's mama's ring and she lost it in de well de.other day."
   When de Devil come to see whut Jack wuz doin', Jack give 'im de ring and de Devil looked and seen all dat dust pourin' out de well. He say, "Ah see youse uh very smart man. Almos' as wise as me. All right, Ah got just one mo' job for you and if you do dat Ah'Il spare yo' life and let you marry mah daughter to boot. You take dese two geeses and go up dat cocoanut palm tree and pick 'em, and bring me de geeses when you git 'em picked and bring me every feather dat come off 'em. If you lose one Ah'll have to take yo life."
   Jack took de two geeses and clammed up de cocoanut palm tree and tried to pick dem geeses. But he was more'n uh hundred feet off de ground and every time he'd pull uh feather often one of dem birds, de wind would blow it away. So Jack began to cry agin. By dat time Beatrice Devil come up wid his supper. "Whuss de matter, Jack?"
   "Yo' papa is bound tuh kill me. He know Ah can't pick no geeses up no palm tree, and save de ' feathers.
   "Eat yo' supper Jack and lay down in mah lap."
   When Jack woke up all both de geeses wuz picked and de girl had all de feathers even; she had done caught dem out de air dat got away from Jack. De Devil said, "Well, now you done everything Ah tole you, you kin have mah daughter. Y'all take dat ole house down de road apiece. Dat's where me and her ma got our start."
   So Jack and de Devil's daughter got married and went to keepin' house.
   Way in de night, Beatrice woke up and shook Jack.
   "Jack! Jack! Wake up! Papa's comin' here to kill you. Git up and go to de barn. He got two horses dat kin jump a thousand miles at every jump. One is named Hallowedbethyname and de other, Thykingdomcome. Go hitch 'em to dat buck board and head  em dis way and le's go."
   Jack run to de barn and harnessed de hawses and headed towards de house where his wife wuz at. When he got to de do' she jumped in and hollered, "Le's go, Jack. Papa comin' after us!"
   When de Devil got to de house to kill Jack and found out Jack wuz gone, he run to de barn to hitch up his fas' hawses. When he seen dat dey wuz gone, he hitched up is jumpin' bull dat could jump five hundred miles at every jump, and down de road, baby!
   De Devil wuz drivin' dat bull! Wid every jump he'd holler, "Oh! Hallowedbethyname! Thykingdomcome!" And every time de hawses would hear 'im call 'em they'd fall to they knees and de bull would gain on 'em.
   De girl say, "Jack, he's 'bout to ketch us! Git out and drag yo' feet backwards nine steps, throw some sand over yo' shoulders and le's go!"
   Jack done dat and de hawses got up and off they went, but every time they hear they master's voice they'd stop till de girl told Jack to drag his foot three times nine times and he did it and they gained so fast on de Devil dat de hawses couldn't hear 'im no mo', and dey got away.
   De Devil passed uh man and he say, "Is you seen uh man in uh buck board wid uh pretty girl wid coal black hair and red eyes behind two fas' hawses?"
   De man said, "No, Ah speck dey done made it to de mountain and if dey gone to de mountain take 'em.
   "Jack and his wife wuz right dere den listenin' to de Devil. When de daughter saw her pa comin' she turned herself and de hawses into goats and they wuz croppin' grass. Jack wuz so tough she couldn't turn him into nothin' so she saw a holler log and she tole 'im to go hide in it, which he did. De Devil looked all around and he seen dat log and his mind jus' tole 'im to go look in it and he went and picked de log up and said "Ah, ha! Ah gotcher!"
   Jack wuz so skeered inside dat log he begin to call on de Lawd and he said, "0 Lawd, have mercy."
   You know de Devil don't lak tuh hear de name uh de Lawd so he throwed down dat log and said, "Damn it! If Ah had of knowed dat God wuz in dat log I Ah a picked it up."
   So he got back in and picked up de reins and hollered to de bull, "Turn, bull, turn! Turn dean round. Turn bull turn, turn dean round!"
   De jumpin' bull turnt so fast till he fell and broke his own neck and throwed de Devil out on his head and kilt 'im. So dat's why dey say Jack beat de Devil.

   "Boy, how kin you hold all dat in yo' head?" Jack Jones asked John. "Bet if dat lie was somethin' to do yuh some good yuh couldn't remember it."
   Johnnie Mae yawned wide open and Ernest seeing her called out, "Hey, there Johnnie Mae, throw mah trunk out ,befo' you shet up dat place!"
   This reflection upon the size of her mouth peeved Johnnie Mae no end and she and Ernest left in a red hot family argument. Then everybody else found out that they were sleepy. So in the local term everybody went to the "pad. "
   Lee Robinson over in the church was leading an ole spiritual, "When I come to Die," to which I listened with one ear, while I heard the parting quips of the storytellers with the other.
   Though it was after ten the street lights were still on. B. Moseley had not put out the lights because the service in the church was not over yet, so I sat on the porch for a while ,looking towards the heavenrasping oaks on the back street, towards the glassy silver of Lake Sabelia. Over in the church I could hear Mrs. Laura Henderson finishing her testimony .. . . " to make Heben mah home when Ah come to die. Oh, Ah'll never forget dat day when de mornin' star bust in mah heart! Ah'll never turn back! 0 evenin' sun, when you git on de other side, tell mah Lawd Ah'm here prayin'."
   The next afternoon I sat on the porch again. The young'uns had the grassy lane that ran past the left side of the house playing the same games that I had played in the same lane years before. With the camphor tree as a base, they played ''Going 'Round de Mountain." Little Hubert Alexander was in the ring. The others danced rhythmically 'round him and sang:
    
   Going around de mountain two by two
   Going around de mountain two by two
   Tell me who love sugar and candy.
   Now, show me your motion, two by two
   Show me your motion two by two
   Tell me who love sugar and candy.

   I tried to write a letter but the games were too exciting.
   "Little Sally Walker," " Draw a bucket of water" "Sissy in de barn," and at last that most raucous, Popular and most African of games, "Chirck, mah Chick, mah Craney crow." Little Harriet Staggers, the smallest girl in the game, was contending for the place of the mama hen. She fought hard, but the larger girls Promptly overruled her'and she had to take her place in line behind the other little biddies, twoyearold Donnie Brown, being a year younger than Harriet, was the hindmost chick.
   During the hilarious uproar of the game, Charlie Jones and Bubber Mimms came up and sat on the porch with me.
   "Good Lawd, Zora! How kin you stand all dat racket? Why don't you run dem chaps 'way from here?" Seeing his nieces, Laura and Melinda and his nephew, Judson, he started to chase them off home but I made him see that it was a happy accident that they had chosen the lane as a playground. That I was enjoying it more than the chaps.
   That settled, Charlie asked, "Well, Zora, did we lie enough for you las' night?"
   "You lied good but not enough," I answered.
   "Course, Zora, you ain't at de right place to git de bes' lies. Why don't you go down 'round Bartow and Lakeland and ,round in dere?Polk County? Dat's where they really lies up a mess and dats where dey makes up all de songs and things lak dat. Ain't you never hea'd dat in Polk County de water drink lak cherry wine?"
   "Seems like when Ah was a child 'round here Ah heard de folks pickin' de guitar and singin' songs to dat effect."
   "Dat's right. If Ah was you, Ah'd drop down dere and see. It's liable to do you a lot uh good."
   "If Ah wuz in power. Ah'd go 'long wid you, Zora," Bubber added wistfully. "Ah learnt all Ah know 'bout pickin' de box in Polk County. But Ah ain't even got money essence. 'Tain't no mo' hawgs 'round here. Ah cain't buy no chickens. Guess Ah have tuh eat gopher." "Where you gointer git yo' gophers, Bubber?" Charlie asked, "Doc Biddy and his pa done 'bout deaned out dis part of de State. "
   "Oh, Ah got a new improvement dat's gointer be a lot of help to me and Doc Biddy and all of us po' folks."
   "What is it, Bubber?"
   "Ah'm gointer prune a gang of softshells (turtles) and grow me some gophers."
   The sun slid lower and lower and at last lost its grip on the western slant of the sky and dipped three times into the bloody sea sending up crimson spray with each plunge. At last it sunk and night roosted on the tree tops and houses.
   Bubber picked the box and Charlie sang me songs of the railroad camps. Among others, he taught me verses of John Henry, the king of railroad track-laying songs which runs as follows:

      John Henry driving on the right hand side,
   Steam drill driving on the left,
   Says, 'fore I'll let your steam drill beat me down 
   I'll hammer my fool self to death,
   Hammer my fool self to death.

   John Henry told his Captain, 
   When you go to town 
   Please bring me back a nine pound hammer 
   And I'll drive your steel on down, 
   And I'll drive your steel on down.

   John Henry told his Captain,
   Man ain't nothing but a man,
   And 'fore I'll let that steam drill beat me down
   I'll die with this hammer in my hand,
   Die with this hammer in my hand.

   Captain ast John Henry,
   What is that storm I hear?
   He says Cap'n that ain't no storm, '
   Tain't nothing but my hammer in the air,
   Nothing but my hammer in the air.

   John Henry told his Captain,
   Bury me under the sills of the floor,
   So when they get to playing good old Georgy skin,
   Bet 'em fifty to a dollar more, 
   Fifty to a dollar more.

   John Henry had a little woman,
   The dress she wore was red,
   Says I'm going down the track,
   And she never looked back.
   I'm going where John Henry fell dead,
   Going wherejohn Henry fell dead.

   Who's going to shoe your pretty fil feet?
   And who's going to glove your hand?
   Who's going to kiss your dimpled cheek?
   And who's going to be your man?
   Who's going to be your man?

   My father's going to shoe my pretty lil feet;
   My brother's going to glove my hand;
   My sister's going to kiss my dimpled cheek;
   John Henry's going to be my man,
   John Henry's going to be my man.

   Where did you get your pretty lil dress?
   The shoes you wear so fine?
   I got my shoes from a railroad man,
   My dress from a man in the mine,
   My dress from a man in the mine. 
   

   They talked and told strong stories of Ella Wall, East Coast Mary, Planchita and lesser jook lights around whom the glory of Polk County surged. Sawmill and turpentine bosses and  prison camp "cap'ns" set to music passed over the guitar strings and Charlie's mouth and I knew I had to visit Polk County right now.
   A hasty goodbye to Eatonville's oaks and oleanders and wheels of the Chevvie split Orlando wide open--headed southwest for corn (likker) and song.
   Twelve miles below Kissimmee I passed under an arch that marked the Polk County line. I was in the famed Polk County.
   How often had I heard "Polk County Blues."
   "You don't know Polk County lak Ah do. Anybody been dere, tell you de same thing too."
   The asphalt curved deeply and when it straightened out we saw a huge smoke-stack blowing smut against the sky. A big sign said, "Everglades Cypress Lumber Company, Loughman, Florida. "
   We had meant to keep on to Bartow or Lakeland and we debated the subject between us until we reached the opening, then I won. We went in. The little Chevrolet was all against it. The thirty odd miles that we had come, it argued, was nothing but an appetizer. Lakeland was still thirty miles away and no telling what the road held. But it sauntered on down the bark-covered road and into the quarters just as if it had really wanted to come.
   We halted beside two women walking to the commissary and asked where we could get a place to stay, despite the signs all over that this was private property and that no one could enter without the consent of the company.
   One of the women was named "Babe" Hill and she sent to her mother's house to get a room, I learned later that Mr Allen ran the boarding-house under patronage of the company. So we put up at Mrs. Allen's.
   That night the place was full of men--come to look over the new addition to the quarters. Very little was said directly me and when I tried to be friendly there was a noticeable disposition to fend me off. This worried me because I saw once that this group of several hundred Negroes from all over the South was a rich field for folk-lore, but here was I figuratively starving to death in the midst of plenty.
   Babe had a son who lived at the house with his grandmother and we soon made friends. Later the sullen Babe and I got on cordial terms. I found out afterwards that during the Christmas holidays of 1926 she had shot her husband to death, had fled to Tampa where she had bobbed her hair and eluded capture for several months but had been traced thru letters to her mother and had been arrested and lodged in Bartow jail. After a few months she had been allowed to come home an' the case was forgotten. Negro women are punished in these parts for killing men, but only if they exceed the quota. I don't remember what the quota is. Perhaps I did hear but I forgot, One woman had killed five when I left that turpentine still where she lived. The sheriff was thinking of calling on her an scolding her severely.
   James Presley used to come every night and play his guitar. Mrs. Allen's temporary brother-in-law could play a good second but he didn't have a box so I used to lend him mine. They would play. The men would crowd in and buy soft drinks an woof at me, the stranger, but I knew I wasn't getting on. The ole feather-bed tactics.
   Then one day after Cliffert Ulmer, Babe's son, and I had driven down to Lakeland together he felt close enough to tell me what was the trouble. They all thought I must be a revenue officer or a detective of some kind. They were accustomed to strange women dropping into the quarters, but not in shiny, gray Chevrolets. They usually came plodding down the big road or counting railroad ties. The car made me look too prosperous. So they set me aside as different. And since most of them were fugitives from justice or had done plenty time, a detective was just the last thing they felt they needed on that "job."
   I took occasion that night to impress the job with the fact that I was also a fugitive from justice, "bootlegging." They were hot behind me in Jacksonville and they wanted me in Miami. So I was hiding out. That sounded reasonable. Bootleggers always have cars. I was taken in.
   The following Saturday was pay-day. They paid off twice a month and pay night is big doings. At least one dance at the section of the quarters known as the Pine Mill and two or three in the big Cypress Side. The company works with two kinds of lumber.
   You can tell where the dances are to be held by the fires. Huge bonfires of faulty logs and slabs are lit outside the house in which the dances are held. The refreshments are parched peanuts, fried rabbit, fish, chicken and chitterlings.
   The only music is guitar music and the only dance is the ole square dance. James Presley is especially invited to every party to play. His pay is plenty of coon dick, and he plays.
   Joe Willard is in great demand to call figures. He rebels occasionally because he likes to dance too.
   But all of the fun isn't inside the house. A group can always be found outside about the fire, standing around and woofing and occasionally telling stories.
   The biggest dance on this particular pay-night was over to the Pine Mill. James Presley and Slim assured me that they would be over there, so Cliffert Ulmer took me there. Being the reigning curiosity of the "job" lots of folks came to see what I'd do. So it was a great dance.
   The guitars cried out "Polk County," "Red River" and just instrumental hits with no name, that still are played by all good box pickers. The dancing was hilarious to put it mildly. Babe, Lucy, Big Sweet, East Coast Mary and many other of the well-known women were there. The men swung them lustily, but nobody asked me to dance. I was just crazy to get into the dance, too. I had heard my mother speak of it and praise square dancing to the skies, but it looked as if I was doomed to be a wallflower and that was a new role for me. Even Cliffert didn't ask me to dance. It was so jolly, too. At the end of every set Joe Willard would trick the men. Instead of calling the next figure as expected he'd bawl out, "Grab yo' partners and march up to de table and treat." Some of the men did, but some would bolt for the door and stand about the fire and woof until the next set was called.
   I went outside to join the woofers, since I seemed to have no standing among the dancers. Not exactly a hush fell about the fire, but a lull came. I stood there awkwardly, knowing that the too-ready laughter and aimless talk was a window-dressing for my benefit. The brother in black puts a laugh in every vacant place in his mind. His laugh has a hundred meanings. It may mean amusement, anger, grief, bewilderment, chagrin, curiosity, simple pleasure or any other of known or undefined emotions. Clardia Thornton of Magazine Point, Alabama, was telling me about another woman taking her husband away from her. When the show-down came and he told Clardia in the presence of the other women that he didn't want her-could never use her again, she tole me "Den, Zora, Ah wuz so outdone, Ah just opened mouf and laffed."  
   
The folks around the fire laughed and boisterously showed each other about, but I knew they were not tickled. But I soon had the answer. A pencil-shaped fellow with a Adam's apple gave me the key.
   "Ma'am, whut might be yo' entrimmins?" he asked with what was supposed to be a killing bow.
   "My whut?"
   "Yo entrimmins? Yo entitlum?"
   The "entitlum" gave me the cue, "Oh, my name is Zora Hurston. And whut may be yours?"
   More people came closer quickly.
   "Mah name is Pitts and Ah'm sho glad to meet yuh. Ah asted Cliffert tuh knock me down tuh yuh but he wouldn't make me 'quainted. So Ah'm makin' mahseff 'quainted."
   "Ah'm glad you did, Mr. Pitts."
   "Sho nuff?" archly.
   "Yeah. Ah wouldn't be sayin' it if Ah didn't mean it."
   He looked me over shrewdly. "Ah see dat las' crap you shot, Miss, and Ah fade yuh."
   I laughed heartily. The whole fire laughed at his quick comeback and more people came out to listen.
   "Miss, you know uh heap uh dese hard heads wants to woof at you but dey skeered."
   "How come, Mr. Pitts? Do I look like a bear or panther?"
   "Naw, but dey say youse rich and dey ain't got de nerve to dey mouf."
   I mentally cursed the $12.74 dress from Macy's that I had on among all the $1.98 mail-order dresses. I looked about and noted the number of bungalow aprons and even the rolled down paper bags on the heads of several women. I did look different and resolved to fix all that no later than the next morning.
   "Oh, Ah ain't got doodley squat, I countered. "Mah man brought me dis dress de las' time he went to Jacksonville. We wuz sellin'plenty stuff den and makin'good money. Wisht Ah had dat money now."
   Then Pitts began woofing at me and the others stood around to see how I took it.
   "Say, Miss, you know nearly all dese niggers is after you Dat's all dey talk about out in de swamp."
   "You don't say. Tell 'em to make me know it."
   "Ah ain't tellin' nobody nothin'. Ah ain't puttin' out not to no ole hard head but ole folks eyes and Ah ain't doin' till they dead. Ah talks for Number One. Second stanza: So of 'em talkin''bout marryin'you and dey wouldn't know whut to do wid you if they had you. Now, dat's a fack."
   "You reckon?"
   "Ah know dey wouldn't. Dey'd 'spect you tuh git out de bed and fix dem some breakfus' and a bucket. Dat's 'cause de don't know no better. Dey's thin-brainded. Now me, wouldn't let you fix me no breakfus'. Ah git up and fix malt own and den, whut make it so cool, Ah'd fix you some and set it on de back of de cook-stove so you could git it when yo' wake up. Dese mens don't even know how to talk to nobody  lak you. If you wuz tuh ast dese niggers somethin de answer you 'yeah' and 'naw.' Now, if you wuz some ole gator- back 'oman dey'd be tellin' you jus' right. But dat ain't de way tuh talk tuh nobody lak you, Now you ast me somethin' and see how Ah'Il answer yuh."
   "Mr. Pitts, are you havin' a good time?"
   (In a prim falsetto) "Yes, Ma'am. See, dat's de way tuh talk tuh you. "
   I laughed and the crowd laughed and Pitts laughed. Very successful woofing. Pitts treated me and we got on. Soon a boy came to me from Cliffert Ulmer asking me to dance. I found out that that was the social custom. The fellow that wants to broach a young woman doesn't come himself to ask. He sends his friend. Somebody came to me for Joe Willard and soon I was swamped with bids to dance. They were afraid of me before. My laughing acceptance of Pitts' woofing had put  everybody at his ease.
   James Presley and Slim spied noble at the orchestra. I had the chance to learn more about "John Henry" maybe. So I strolled over to James Presley and asked he knew how to play it.
   "Ah'll play it if you sing it," he countered. So he played and I started to sing the verses I knew. They put me on the table and everybody urged me to spread my jenk, so I did the best I could. Joe Willard knew two verses and sang them. Eugene Oliver knew one; Big Sweet knew one. And how James Presley can make his box cry out the accompaniment!
   By the time that the song was over, before Joe Willard lifted me down from the table I knew that I was in the inner cirde. I had first to convince the "job" that I was not an enemy in the person of the law; and, second, I had to prove that I was their kind. "John Henry" got me over my second hurdle.
   After that my car was everybody's car. James Presley, Slim and I teamed up and we had to do "John Henry" wherever we appeared. We soon had a reputation that way. We went to Mulberry, Pierce and Lakeland.
   After that I got confidential and told them all what I wanted.
   Anybody wanting to put down "lies." But when I got the idea over we held a lying contest and posted the notices at the Post Office and the commissary. I gave four prizes and some tall lying was done. The men and women enjoyed themselves and the contest broke up in a square dance with Joe Willard calling figures.
   The contest was a huge success in every way. I not only collected a great deal of material but it started individuals coming to me privately to tell me stories they had no chance to tell during the contest.
   Cliffert Ulmer told me that I'd get a great deal more by going out with the swamp gang. He said they lied a plenty while they worked. I spoke to the quarter boss and the swamp boss and both agreed it was all-right, so I strowed it all over the quarters that I was going out to the swamp boys next day. My own particular crowd, Cliffert, James Willard, Jim Allen and Eugene Oliver were to look out and see to it that I didn't get snake-bit nor 'gator-swallowed. The watchman, who sleeps out in the swamps and gets steam in the skitter every morning before the men get  to the cypress swamp, had been killed by a panther two weeks before, but they assured me that nothing like that could happen to me; not with the help I had.
    Having watched some members of that swamp crew handle axes, I didn't doubt for a moment that they could do all the they said. Not only do they chop rhythmically, but they do beautiful double twirl above their heads with the as axe before it begins that accurate and bird-like descent. They can hurl their axes great distances and behead moccasins or sink the blade into an alligator's skull. In fact, they seem to able to do everything with their instrument that a blade do. It is a magnificent sight to watch the marvelous co-ordination between the handsome black torsos and the twirling axes'.
   So next morning we were to be off to the woods.
   It wasn't midnight dark and it wasn't day yet. When I awoke, the saw-mill camp was a dawn gray. You could see the big, saw-mill but you couldn't see the smoke from the chimney. You could see the congregation of shacks and the dim outlines of the scrub oaks among the houses, but you couldn't see the grey quilts of Spanish Moss that hung from the trees. Dick Willie was the only man abroad. It was his business to be the first one out. He was the shack-rouser. Men are not supposed to over-sleep and Dick Willie gets paid to see to it that they don't. Listen to him singing as he goes down the line.
   Wake up, bullies, and git on de rock. 'Tain't quitedaylight but  it's four o'clock. 
   Coming up the next line, he's got another song.
   Wake up, Jacob, day's a breakin'. Git yo' hoe-cake a  bakin' and shirt tail shakin'.
   What does he say when he gets to the jook and the long-house? I'm fixing to tell you right now what he says. He raps the floor of the porch with a stick and says: 'Ah ha! What make de rooster crow every morning at sun-up?
   'Dat's to let de pimps and rounders know de workin' man is on his way."
   About that time you see a light in every shack. Every kitchen is scorching up fat-back and hoe-cake. Nearly every skillet is full of corn-bread. But some like biscuit-bread better. Break your hoe-cake half in two. Half on the plate, half in the dinner bucket. Throw in your black-eyed peas and fat meat left from supper and your bucket is fixed. Pour meat grease in your plate with plenty of cane syrup. Mix it and sop it with your bread. A big bowl of coffee, a drink of water from the tin dipper in the pail. Grab your dinner-bucket and hit the grit. Don't keep the straw-boss waiting.
   This morning when we got to the meeting place, the foreman wasn't there. So the men squatted along the railroad track and waited.
   Joe Willard was sitting with me on the end of a cross-tie when he saw Jim Presley coming in a run with his bucket and jumper-jacket.
   "Hey, Jim, where the swamp boss? He ain't got here yet."
   "He's ill-sick in the bed Ah hope, but Ah bet he'll git here yet.
   "Aw, he ain't sick. Ah bet you a fat man he ain't,"Joe said.
   "How come?" somebody asked him and Joe answered:
   "Man, he's too ugly. If a spell of sickness ever tried up on him, he'd skeer it into a three weeks' spasm."
   Blue Baby stuck in his oar and said: "He ain't so ugly. Ye all jus' ain't seen no real ugly man.Ah seen a man so ugly till he could get behind a jimpson weed and hatch monkies."
   Everybody laughed and moved closer together. The officer Richardson said: "Ah seen a man so ugly till the spread a sheet over his head at night so sleep could slip up on him. "
   They laughed some more, then Cliffert Ulmer said:
   "Ah'm goin' to talk with my mouth wide open. Those men y'all been talkin',' bout wasn't ugly at all. Those was men. Ah knowed one so ugly till you could throw him in the Mississippi river and skim ugly for six months."
   Give Cliff de little dog, " Jim Allen said. " He done tole biggest lie."
   "He ain't lyin'," Joe Martin tole them. "Ah knowed same man. He didn't die-he jus' uglied away."
   They laughed a great big old kah kah laugh and got close together.
   "Looka here, folkses, " Jim Presley exclaimed. "Wese a hour behind schedule and no swamp boss and no log train here yet. What yo all reckon is the matter sho' 'nough?",
   "Must be something terrible when white folks get slow about putting us to work."
   "Yeah," says Good Black. "You know back in slavery Ole Massa was out in de field sort of lookin' things over, when a shower of rain come up. The field hands was glad it rained so they could knock off for a while. So one slave named Jo says:
   "More rain, more rest."
   "Ole Massa says, 'What's dat you say?'
   "John says, 'More rain, more grass.'"
   "There goes de big whistle. We ought to be out in the woods almost."
   The big whistle at the saw-mill boomed and shrilled and came racking along. No flats for logs on the log?train cam off the tender and the little engine. The foreman dropped train stopped.
   "No loggin I today, boys. Got to send the train to the Everglades to fetch up the track gang and their tools."
   "Lawd Lawd, we got a day off," Joe Willard said, trying to it sound like he was all put out about it. "Let's go back, boys. Sorry You won't git to de swamp, Zora."
   > "Aw, naw," the Foreman said. 'Y'all had better g'wan over to the mill and see if they need you over there." ."
   And he walked on off, chewing his tobacco and spitting his ice.
   The men began to shoulder jumper-jackets and grab hold of buckets.
   Allen asked, "Ain't dat a mean man? No work in the swamp still he won't let us knock off."
   "He's mean all right, but Ah done seen meaner, men than him," said Handy Pitts.
   "Where?"
   "Oh, up in Middle Georgy. They had a straw boss and he  was so mean dat when the boiler burst and blowed some of the men up in the air, he docked 'em for de time they was off de job."
   Tush Hawg up and said: "Over on de East Coast Ah used to have a road boss and he was so mean and times was so hard till he laid off de hands of his watch."
   Wiley said: "He's almost as bad as Joe Brown. Ah used to work in his mine and he was so mean till he wouldn't give God without snatching back 'Amen.'" an honest prayer
   Ulmer says: "Joe Wiley, youse as big a liar as you is a man! Whoo-wee. Boy, you molds 'em. But lemme tell y'all a sho nuff tale 'bout Ole Massa."
   "Go 'head and tell it, Cliff," shouted Eugene Oliver. "Ah love to hear tales about Ole Massa and John. John sho, was one smart nigger."
   So Cliff Ulmer went on.

   You know befo' surrender Ole Massa had a nigger name John and John always prayed every night befo' he went to bed and his prayer was for God to come git him and take him to Heaven right away. He didn't even want to take time to die. He wanted de Lawd to come git him just like he was-boot, sock and all. He'd git down on his knees and say: "0 Lawd, it's once more and again yo' humble servant is knee-bent and body-bowed,my heart beneath my knees and my knees in some lonesome valley, crying for mercy while mercy kin be found. 0 Lawd, Ah' in astin you in de humblest way I know how to be so pleased as come in yo' fiery chariot and take me to yo' Heben and immortal glory. Come Lawd, you know Ah have such a hard time. Old Massa works me so hard, and don't gimme no time to rest. So come, Lawd, wid peace in one hand an pardon in de other and take me away from this sinsorrowing world. Ah'm tired and Ah want to go home.
   So one night Ole Massa passed by John's shack and heard him beggin' de Lawd to come git him in his fiery chariot and take him away; so he made up his mind to find out if John meant dat thing. So he goes on up to de big house and got hisself a bed sheet and come on back. He throwed, de sheet over his head and knocked on de door.
   John quit prayin' and ast: "Who dat?"
   Ole Massa say: "It's me, John, de Lawd, done come wid my fiery chariot to take you away from this sin-sick 'world."
   Right under de bed John had business. He told his wife: "Tell Him Ah ain't here, Liza."
   At first Liza didn't say nothin' at all, but de Lawd kept right on callin'John: "Come on, John, and go to Heben wid me where you won't have to plough no mo' furrows and hoe no mo' corn. Come -on, John."
   Liza says: "John ain't here, Lawd, you hafta come back another time."
   Lawd says: "Well, then Liza, you'll do.
   Liza whispers and says: "John, come out from underneath dat bed and g'wan wid de Lawd. You been beggin' him to come git you. Now g'wan wid him."
   John back under de bed not saying a mumblin' word. De Lawd out on de door step kept on callin'.
   Liza says: "John, Ah thought you was so anxious to get to Heben. Come out and go on wid God."
   John says: "Don't you hear him say 'You'll do'? Why don't you go wid him?"
   "Ah ain't a goin' nowhere. Youse de one been whoopin' and hollerin' for him to come git,you and if you don't come out from under dat bed Ah'm gointer tell God youse here.
   Ole Massa makin' out he's God, says: "Come on, Liza, you'll do."
   Liza says: "0, Lawd, John is right here underneath de bed.
   "Come on John, and go to Heben wid me and its immortal glory. "
   John crept out from under de bed and went to de door and cracked it and when he seen all dat white standin' on de doorsteps he jumped back. He says: "0, Lawd, Ah can't go to Heben wid you in yo' fiery chariot in dese ole dirty britches; gimme time to put on my Sunday pants."
   "All right, John, put on yo' Sunday pants."
   John fooled around just as long as he could, changing them pants, but when he went back to de door, de big white glory was still standin' there. So he says agin: "0, Lawd, de Good Book says in Heben no filth is found and I got on his dirty sweaty shirt. Ah can't go wid you in dis old nasty shirt. Gimme time to put on my Sunday shirt!"
   "All right, John, go put on yo' Sunday shirt."
   John took and fumbled around a long time changing his shirt, and den he went back to de door, but Ole Massa was still on de door step. John didn't had nothin' else to change so he opened de door a little piece and says:
   0, Lawd, Ah'm ready to go to Heben wid you in yo' fiery chariot, but de radiance of yo' countenance is so bright, Ah can't come out by you. Stand back jus' a li'l way please. "
   Ole Massa stepped back a li'l bit.
   John looked'out agin and says: "0, Lawd, you know dat po' humble me is less than de dust beneath yo' shoe soles. And de radiance of yo' countenance is so bright Ah can't come out by you. Please, please, Lawd, in yo' tender mercy, stand back a li'l bit further."
   Ole Massa stepped back a li'l bit mo'.
   John looked out agin and he says: "0, Lawd, Heben is so high and wese so low; youse so great and Ah'm so weak and yo' strength is too much for us poor sufferin' sinners. So once mo' and agin yo' humber servant is knee-bent an body-bowed askin' you one mo' favor befo' Ah step into yo' fiery chariot to go to Heben wid you and wash in yo' glory--be so pleased in yo' tender mercy as to stand back jus' a li'l bit further."
   Ole Massa stepped back a step or two mo' and out dat door John come like a streak of lightning. All across de punkin patch, thru de cotton over de pasture-John wid Ole Massa right behind him. By de time dey hit de cornfield John was way ahead of Ole Massa.
   Back in de shack one of de children was cryin' and she ast Liza: "Mama, you reckon God's gointer ketch papa and carry him to Heben wid him?"
   "Shet yo' mouf, talkin' foolishness!" Liza clashed at de chile. "You know de Lawd can't outrun yo' pappy specially when he's barefooted at dat."


   Kah, Kah, Kah! Everybody laughing with their mouths wide open. If the foreman had come along right then he, would have been good and mad because he could tell their minds were not on work. Joe Willard says: "Wait a minute, fellows, wese walkin' to fast. At dis rate we'll be there befo' we have time to talk some mo about Ole Massa and John. Tell another one, Cliffert.": "Aw, naw," Eugene Oliver hollered out.

   Let me talk some chat. Dis is de real truth 'bout Ole Massa 'cause my grandma told it to my mama and she told it to me.
   During slavery time, you know, Ole Massa had a nigger named John and he was a faithful nigger and Ole Massa lakted John a lot too.
   One day Ole Massa sent for John and tole him, says:
   John somebody is stealin' my corn out de field. Every mornin' when I go out I see where they done carried off me mo' of my roastin' ears. I want you to set in de corn patch tonight and ketch whoever it is."
   So John said all right and he went and hid in de field.
   Pretty soon he heard somethin' breakin' corn. So John sneaked up behind him wid a short stick in his hand and hollered: "Now, break another ear of Ole Massa's corn and see what Ah'll do to you."
   John thought it was a man all dis time, but it was a bear wid his arms full of roastin' ears. He throwed down de corn and grabbed John. And him and dat bear!
   John, after while got loose and got de bear by the tail wid de bear tryin' to git to him all de time. So they run around in a cirde all night long. John was so tired. But he couldn't let go of de bear's tail, do de bear would grab him in de back.
   After a stretch they quit runnin' and walked. John swingin' on to de bear's tail and de bear's nose 'bout to touch him in de back.
   Daybreak, Ole Massa come out to see 'bout John and he seen John and de bear walkin' 'round in de ring. So he run up and says: "Lemme take holt of 'im, John, whilst you run git help!"
   John says: "All right, Massa. Now you run in quick and grab 'im just so."
   Ole Massa run and grabbed holt of de bear's tail and said: "Now, John you make haste to git somebody to help us.
   John staggered off and set down on de grass and went to fanning hisself wid his hat.
   Ole Massa was havin' plenty trouble wid dat bear and he looked over and seen John settin' on de grass and he hollered:
   "John, you better g'wan git help or else I'm gwinter turn dis bear aloose!"
   John says: "Turn 'im loose, then. Dat's whut Ah tried to do all night long but Ah couldn't." 


   Jim Allen laughed just as loud as anybody else and the said: "We better hurry on to work befo' de buckra in behind us."
   "Don't never worry about work," says Jim Presley "There's more work in de world than there is anything else. God made de world and de white folks made work."
    "Yeah, dey made work but they didn't make us do it," Willard put in. "We brought dat on ourselves."
    "Oh, yes, de white folks did put us to work too " sail Jim Allen.

   Know how it happened? After God got thru makin' de world and de varmints and de folks, he made up a great big bundle and let it down in de middle of de road. It laid dere for thousands of years, then Ole Missus said to Ole Massa: "Go pick up dat box, Ah want to see whut's in it." Ole Massa look at de box and it look so heavy dat he says to de nigger, "Go fetch me dat big ole box out dere in de road." De nigger been stumblin' over de box a long time so he tell his wife:
   "'Oman, go git dat box." So de nigger 'oman she runned to git de box. She says:
   "Ah always lak to open up a big box 'cause there's nearly always something good in great big boxes." So she run and grabbed a-hold of de box and opened it up and it was full of hard work.
   Dat's de reason de sister in black works harder than anybody else in de world. De white man tells de nigger to work and he takes and tells his wife.


   "Aw, now, dat ain't de reason niggers is working so hard, Jim Presley objected.

   Dis is de way dat was.
God let down two bundles 'bout five miles down de road. So de white man and de nigger raced to see who would git there first. Well, de nigger out-run de white man and grabbed de biggest bundle. He was so skeered de the man would git it away from him he fell on top of de bundle and hollered back: "Oh, Ah got here first and dis biggest bundle is mine."
   De white man says: "All right, Ah'll take yo' leavings," and picked up de li'l tee-ninchy bundle layin' in de road. When de nigger opened up his bundle he found a pick and shovel and a hoe and a plow and chop-axe and then de white man opened up his bundle and found a writin-pen and ink. So ever since then de nigger been out in de hot sun, usin' his tools and de white man been sittin' up figgerin', ought's a ought, figger's a figger; all for de white man, none for de nigger.


   "Oh lemme spread my mess. Dis is Will Richardson doin' dis lyin'."

   You know Ole Massa took a nigger deer huntin' and posted him in his place and told him, says: "Now you wait right here and keep yo' gun reformed and ready. Ah'm goin' 'round de hill and skeet up de deer and head him dis way. When he come past, you shoot."
De nigger says: "Yessuh, Ah sho' will, Massa."
   He set there and waited wid de gun all cocked and after a while de deer come tearin' past him. He didn't make a move to shoot de deer so he went on 'bout his business. After while de white man come on 'round de hill and ast de nigger: "Did you kill de deer?"
   De nigger says: "Ah ain't seen no deer pass here yet."
   Massa says: "Yes, you did. You couldn't help but see him. He come right dis way."
   Nigger says: "Well Ah sho' ain't seen none. All Ah seen was a white man come along here wid a pack of chairs on ,his head and Ah tipped my hat to him and waited for de deer."


   "Some colored folks ain't got no sense, and when Ah see em like dat," Ah say, "My race but not my taste." 
   "Y'all ever hear dat lie 'bout big talk?" cut in Joe Wiley. "
   Yeah we done heard it, Joe, but Ah kin hear it some gin. Tell it, Joe," pleaded Gene Oliver.

   During slavery time two ole niggers wuz talkin' an' one said tuh de other one, "Ole Massa made me so mad yistiddy till Ah give 'im uh good cussin' out. Man, Ah called 'im everything wid uh handle on it."
De other one says, "You didn't cuss Ole Massa, didja? Good God! Whut did he do tuh you?"
   "He didn't do nothin', an' man, Ah laid one cussin' on "im! Ah'm uh man lak dis, Ah won't stan' no hunchin'. Ah betcha he won't bother me no mo'
   "Well, if you cussed 'im an' he didn't do nothin' tuh you de nex' time he make me mad Ah'm goin' tuh lay uh hearin' on him. ,
   Nex' day de nigger did somethin'. Ole Massa got in behind 'im and he turnt 'round an' give Ole Massa one good cussin' an Ole Massa had 'im took down and whipped nearly tuh death. Nex' time he saw dat other nigger he says tuh 'im. "Thought you tole me, you cussed Ole Massa out and he never opened his mouf." "Ah did." "Well, how come he never did nothin' tuh yuh? Ah did it an' he come nigh uh killin' me.'
   "Man, you didn't go cuss 'im tuh his face, didja?"
   "Sho Ah did. Ain't dat whut you tole me you done?"
   "Naw, Ah didn't say Ah cussed 'im tuh his face. You sho is crazy. Ah thought you had mo' sense than dat. When Ah cussed Ole Massa he wuz settin' on de front porch an' Ah wuz down at de big gate."
   De other nigger wuz mad but he didn't let on. Way after while he 'proached de nigger dat got 'im de beatin' an' tole 'im, "Know whut Ah done tuhday?"
   "Naw, whut you done? Give Ole Massa 'nother cussin'?"
   "Naw, Ah ain't never goin' do dat no mo'. Ah peeped up under Ole Miss's drawers."
   "Man, hush yo' mouf! You knows you ain't looked up under ole Miss's clothes!"
   "Yes, Ah did too. Ah looked right up her very drawers."
   "You better hush dat talk! Somebody goin' hear you and Ole Massa'll have you kilt."
   "Well, Ah sho done it an' she never done nothin' neither. "
   "Well, whut did she say?"
   "Not uh mumblin' word, an' Ah stopped and looked jus' as long as Ah wanted tuh an' went on 'bout mah business."
   "Well, de nex' time Ah see her settin' out on de porch Ah'm goin' tuh look too."
   "Help yo'self."
   Dat very day Ole Miss wuz settin' out on de porch in de cool uh de evenin' all dressed up in her starchy white clothes. She had her legs all crossed up and de nigger walked up tuh de edge uh de porch and peeped up under Ole Miss's clothes. She took and hollored an' Ole Massa come out an' had dat nigger almost kilt alive.
   When he wuz able tuh be 'bout agin he said tuh de other nigger, "Thought you tole me you peeped up under Ole Miss's drawers?"
   "Ah sho did."
   "Well, how come she never done nothin' tuh you? She got me nearly kilt."
   "Man, when Ah looked under Ole Miss's drawers they wuz hangin' out on de clothes line. You didn't go look up in 'em while she had 'em on, didja? You sho is uh fool! Ah thought you had mo' sense than dat, Ah claire Ah did. It's uh wonder he didn't kill yuh dead. Umph, umph, umph. You sho ain't got no sense atall."


   "Yeah," said Black Baby, "But dat wasn't John de white folks was foolin' wid. John was too smart for Ole Massa. He never got no beatin'!"

   De first colored man what was brought to dis country was name John. He didn't know nothin' mo' than you told him and he never forgot nothin' you told him either. So he was sold to a white man. Things he didn't know he would ask about. They went to a house and John never seen a house so he asked what it was. Ole Massa tole him it was his kingdom. So dey goes on into de house and dere was the fireplace. He asked what was that. Ole Massa told him it was his flame 'vaperator.
   The cat was settin' dere. He asked what it was. Ole Massa told him it was his round head.
   So dey went upstairs. When he got on de stair steps he asked what dey was. Ole Massa told him it was his jacob ladder. So when they got up stairs he had a roller foot bed. John asked what was dat. Ole Massa told him it was his flowery-bed-of-ease. So dey came down and went out to de'lot. He had a barn. John asked what was dat. Ole Massa told him, dat was his mound. So he had a Jack in the stable, too. John asked, "What in de world is dat?" Ole Massa said: "Dat's July, de God dam."
   So de next day Ole Massa was upstairs sleep and John was smokin'. It flamed de 'vaperator and de cat was settin' dere and it got set afire. The cat goes to de barn where Ole Massa had lots of hay and fodder in de barn. So de cat set it on fire. John watched de Jack kicking up hay and fodder. He would see de hay and fodder go up and come down but he thought de Jack was eatin' de hay and fodder.
   So he goes upstairs and called Ole Massa and told him to get up off'n his flowery-bed-of-ease and come down on his jacob ladder. He said: "I done flamed the 'vaperator and it caught de round head and set him on fire. He's gone to de mound and set it on fire, and July the God dam is eatin' up everything he kin git his mouf on."
   Massa turned over in de bed and ast, "Whut dat you say, John?"
   John tole 'im agin. Massa was still sleepy so he ast John agin whut he say. John was gittin' tired so he say, "Aw, you better git up out dat bed and come on down stairs. Ah done set dat ole cat afire and he run out to de barn and set it afire and dat ole jackass is eatin' up everything he git his mouf on."


   Gene Oliver said: "Y'all hush and lemme tell this one befo we git to de mill. This ain't no slavery time talk."

   Once they tried a colored man in Mobile for stealing a goat. He was so poorly dressed, and dirty--that de judge told him, "Six months on de country road, you stink so."
   A white man was standing dere and he said, "Judge, he don't stink, Ah got a nigger who smells worser than a billy goat." De judge told de man to bring him on over so he could smell him. De next day de man took de billy goat and de nigger and went to de court and sent de judge word dat de nigger and de billy goat wuz out dere and which one did he want fust.
   The judge told him to bring in de goat. When he carried de goat he smelled so bad dat de judge fainted. Dey got ice water and throwed it in de judge's face 'til he come to. He told 'em to bring in de nigger and when dey brung in de nigger de goat fainted. 


   Joe Wiley said: "Ah jus' got to tell this one, do Ah can't rest.

   In slavery time dere was a colored man what was named John. He went along wid Ole Massa everywhere he went. He used to make out he could tell fortunes. One day him and his Old Massa was goin' along and John said, "Ole Massa, Ah kin tell fortunes. "  Ole Massa made out he didn't pay him no attention. But when they got to de next man's plantation Old Massa told de landlord, "I have a nigger dat kin tell fortunes." So de other man said, "Dat nigger can't tell no fortunes. I bet my plantation and all my niggers against yours dat he can't tell no fortunes."
   Ole Massa says: "I'll take yo' bet. I bet everything in de world I got on John 'cause he don't lie. If he say he can tell fortunes, he can tell 'em. Bet you my plantation and all my niggers against yours and throw in de wood lot extry."
   So they called Notary Public and signed up de bet. Ole Massa straddled his horse and John got on his mule and they went on home.
   John was in de misery all that night for he knowed he was gointer be de cause of Ole Massa losin' all he had.
   Every mornin' John useter be up and have Old Massa's saddle horse curried and saddled at de door when Ole Massa woke up. But this mornin' Old Massa had to git John out of de bed.
   John useter always ride side by side with Massa, but on de way over to de plantation where de bet was on, he rode way behind.
   So de man on de plantation had went out and caught a coon and had a big old iron wash-pot turned down over it.
   There was many person there to hear John tell what was under de wash?pot.
   Ole Massa brought John out and tole him, say: "John, if you tell what's under dat wash pot Ah'Il make you independent, rich. If you don't, Ah'm goin' to kill you because you'll make me lose my plantation and everything I got."
   John walked 'round and 'round dat pot but he couldn't git de least inklin' of what was underneath it. Drops of sweat as big as yo' fist was rollin' off of John. At last he give up and said: "Well, you got de ole coon at last."
   When John said that, Ole Massa jumped in de air and cracked his heels twice befo' he hit de ground. De man that was bettin' against Ole Massa fell to his knees wid de cold sweat pourin' off him. Ole Massa said: "John, you done won another Plantation fo' me. That's a coon under that pot sho 'nuff.?
   So he give John a new suit of clothes and a saddle horse. And John quit tellin' fortunes after that.


   Going back home Ole Massa said: "Well John, you done made me vast rich so I goin' to Philly-Me-York and won't be back in three weeks. I leave everything in yo charge.
   So Ole Massa and his wife got on de train and John went	 to de depot with 'em and see 'em off on de train bid 'em goodbye. Then he hurried on back to de plantation. Ole Massa and ole Miss got off at de first station and made it on back to see whut John was doin,.
   John went back and told de niggers, "Massa's gone to Philly- me-York and left everything in MY charge. Ah want one of you niggers to git on a mule and ride three miles north, and another one three miles west and another one three miles south and another one everybody to come here-there's goiter three miles cast. Tell everybody to come here, there's gointer be a ball here tonight. The rest of you go into the lot and kill hogs until you can walk on 'em." 
    So they did. John goes in and dressed up in Ole	 Massa's  swaller-tail clothes, put on his collar and tie; got a box of Ole Massa cigars and put under his arm, and one cigar in his mouth.
   When the crowd come John said: "Y'all kin dance and Ah'm goin' to call figgers."
   So he got Massa's biggest rockin, chair and put it up in Massa's bed and then he got up in the bed begin to call figgers: 
   '"Hands up! Four cirde right." "Half back," "Two ladies change." He was puffing his cigar all de time. '
   Bout this-time John seen a white Couple come in but they looked so trashy he figgered they was piney woods crackers, so he told 'em to g'wan out in de kitchen and git some barbecue and likker and to stay out there ' where they belong. So he went to callin' figgers agin. De git Fiddles' was raisin' cain over in de corner and John was callin ,
   "Choose yo' partners. Couples to to YO 'Places like horses Swing Miss Sally 'round and 'round and bring her back to Mel!
   Just as he went to say "Four hands up," he seen ole Massa comin, out the kitchen wipin' the dirt off his face.
   Ole Massa said: "John, just look whut you done done! I'm gointer take you to that persimmon tree and break" yo'	 neck for	this-killing up all my hogs and havin, all these niggers in my house?"
   John ast, "Ole Massa, Ah know you gointer killme but can Ah have a word with my friend Jack before you kill	me."
   "Yes, John, but have it quick."
   So John called Jack and told him;  says: "Ole Massa is gointer hang me under that persimmon tree. Now you get three matches and get in the top of the tree. Ah'm gointer pray and when You hear me ast God to let it lightning Ah want you to strike matches."
   Jack went on out to the tree. Ole Massa brought John on out with the rope around his neck and put it over a limb.
   "Now, John," said Massa "have you got any last words to say?"
   "Yes sir, Ah want to pray.
   "Pray and Pray damn quick. I'm dean out of patience with you, John."
   So John knelt down. "0 Lord, here Ah am at de foot of de Persimmon tree. If you're gointer destroy Old Massa tonight, with his wife and chillun and everything he got, lemme see it lightnin'."
   Jack up the tree, struck a match. Ole Massa caught hold of John and said: 'John, don't Pray no More.
   John said, "Oh Yes, turn me loose so Ah can pray. 0 Lord, here Ah am tonight callin' on Thee and Thee alone. If You are gointer destroy Ole Massa tonight his wife and chillun and all he got, Ah want to see it lightnin.
   Jack struck another match and Ole Massa started to run. He give John his freedom and a heap of land and stock. He run so fast that it took a express train running at the rate of ninety miles an hour and six months to bring him back, and that's how come niggers got they freedom today.


   Well, we were at the mill at last, as slow as we had walked. Old Hannah  was climbing the road of the sky, heating up sand beds and sweating peoples. No wonder nobody wanted to work. Three fried men are not equal to one good cool one. The men stood around the door for a minute or two, then dropped down on the shady side of the building. Work was too discouraging to think about. Phew! Sun and sawdust, sweat and sand. Nobody called a meeting and voted to sit in the shade. It just happened naturally.
   Jim Allen said, "Reckon we better go inside and see if they want us?"
   "Oh hell, naw!" shouted Lennie Barnes. "We ain't no millhands nohow. Let's stay right where we is till they find us. We got plenty to do-lyin' on Ole Massa and slavery days. Lemme handle a li'l language long here wid de rest. Y'all ever hear 'bout dat nigger dat found a gold watch?"
   "Yeah, Ah done heard it," said Cliff, "but go on and tell it, Lonnie, so yo' egg bag kin rest easy."

   "Well, once upon a time was a good ole time.
   Monkey chew tobacco and spit white lime."
   A colored man was walking down de road one day and he found a gold watch and chain. He didn't know what it was, so the first thing he met was a white man, so he showed the white man de watch and ast him what it was .
   White man said, "Lemme see it in my hand."
   De colored man give it to him and de white man said, "Why this is a gold watch, and de next time you find any thing kickin' in de road put in yo' pocket and sell it."
   With that he put the watch in his pocket and left de colored man standing there.
   So de colored man walked on down de road a piece further and walked up on a little turtle. He tied a string to it and put de turtle in his pocket and let de string hang out So he met another colored fellow and the fellow ast him says: "Cap, what time you got?
   He pulled out de turtle and told de man, "It's a quarter past leben and kickin' lak hell for twelve."


   Larkins White says: "Y'all been wearin' Ole Massa's southern can out dis mornin'. Pass him over here to me and le handle some grammar wid him."
   "You got him, Ah just hope dat strawboss don't come sidlin' 'round here," somebody said.
   "Ah got to tell you 'bout Old Massa down in de piney woods. "

   During slavery uh nigger name Jack run off from his marster and took and hid hisself down in de piney woods.
   Ole Massa hunted and hunted but he never could ketch dat nigger.
   But Jack had uh good friend on de plantation dat useter slip 'im somethin' t' eat and fetch de banjo down and play 'im somethin' every day so's he could dance some. Jack wuz tryin' to make it on off de mountain where Old Massa couldn't fetch 'im back. So Ole Massa got on to dis other nigger slippin' out to Jack but he couldn't ketch 'im so he tole 'im if he lead 'im to where Jack wuz he'd give 'im a new suit uh clothes. So he said, "All right."
   So he tole Old Massa to follow him and do whutever he sing. So Ole Massa said, "All right."
   So dat day de nigger took Jack some dinner and de Banjo. So Jack et. Den he tole him, say: "Jack I got uh new song fuh yuh today. "
   Play it and lemme dance some."
   It's about Ole Massa."
   Jack said, "I don't give uh damn 'bout Ole Massa. Ah don't b1ong tuh him no mo'. Play it and lemme dance."
   So he started to playin'.
   "From pine to pine, Mister Pinkney. From pine to pine, Mister Pinkney."
   Jack was justa dancin' fallin' off de log and cuttin' de pigeon wing?(diddle dip, diddle dip??diddle dip) "from pine to pine Mr. Pinkney.
   White man coming closer all de time. "Now take yo' time Mister Pinkney. Now take yo' time Mister Pinkney." (Diddle dip, diddle dip, diddle dip, diddle dip) "Now grab 'im now Mister Pinkney Now grab 'im now Mister Pinkney." (Diddle dip, diddle dip, diddle dip, diddle dip) "Now grab 'im now Mister Pinkney."
   So they caught Jack and put uh hundred lashes on his back and put him back to work.


   "Now Ah tole dat one for myself, now Ah got to tell one for my wife."
   "Aw, g'wan tell de lie, Larkins, if you want to. You know you ain't tellin' no lie for yo' wife. No mo' than de rest of us. You lyin' cause you like it." James Presley put in. "Hurry up so somebody else kin plough up some literary and lay-by some alphabets. "

   Two mens dat didn't know how tuh count good had been haulin' up cawn and they stopped at de cemetery wid de last load 'cause it wuz gittin' kinda dark. They thought they'd git thru instead uh goin' 'way tuh one of 'em's barn. When they wuz goin' in de gate two car uh cawn dropped off de waggin, but they didn't stop tuh bother wid 'em, just then. They wuz in uh big hurry tuh git home. They wuz justa vidin' it up.
   "You take dis'n an Ah'll take dat'un, you take dat'un and Ah'Il take dis'un."
   An ole nigger heard 'em while he wuz passin' de cemetery an' run home tuh tell ole Massa 'bout it. 
   "Massa, de Lawd and de devil is down in de cemetery 'vidin' up souls. Ah heard 'em. One say, 'you take that 'un an' Ah'll take dis'un'."
   Ole Massa wuz sick in de easy chear, he couldn't git about by hisself, but he said, "Jack, Ah don't know whut dis foolishness is, but Ah know you lyin'."
   "Naw Ah ain't neither, Ah swear it's so."
   "Can't be, Jack, youse crazy."
   "Naw, Ah ain't neither; if you don' believe me, come see for yo'self."
   "Guess Ah better go see whut you talkin' 'bout; if you fool me, Ah'm gointer have a hundred lashes put on yo' back in de mawnin' suh."
   They went on down tuh de cemetery wid Jack pushin' Massa in his rollin' chear, an' it wuz sho dark down dere too. So they couldn't see de two ears uh cawn layin' in de gate.
   Sho nuff Ole Massa heard 'em sayin' "Ah'll take dis'un," and de other say, "An' Ah'Il take dis'un." Ole Massa got skeered hisself but he wuzn't lettin' on, an'Jack whispered tuh 'im, "Unh hunh, didn't Ah tell you de Lawd an' de devil wuz down here 'vidin' up souls?"
   They waited awhile there in de gate listenin' den they heard 'em say, "Now, we'll go git dem two at de gate."
   Jack says, "Ah knows de Lawd gwine take you, and Ah ain't gwine let de devil get me?Ah'm gwine home." An' he did an" lef' Ole Massa settin' dere at de cemetery gate in his rollin' chear, but when he got home, Ole Massa had done beat 'im home and wuz settin' by de fire smokin' uh seegar.


   Jim Allen began to fidget. "Don't y'all reckon we better g'wan inside? They might need us."
   Lonnie Barnes shouted, "Aw naw-you sho is worrysome. You bad as white folks. You know they say a white man git in some kind of trouble, he'll fret and fret until he kill hisself. A nigger git into trouble, he'll fret a while, then g'wan to sleep. "
   "Yeah, dat's right, too," Eugene Oliver agreed. "Didja ever hear de white man's prayer?"
    "Who in Polk County ain't heard dat?" cut in Officer Richardson.
   '"Well, if you know it so good, lemme hear you say it," Eugene snapped back.
    "Oh, Ah don't know it well enough to say it. Ah jus' know it well enough to know it."
   "Well, all right then, when Ah'm changing my dollars, you keep yo' pennies out."
   "Ah don't know it, Eugene, say it for me," begged Peter Noble. "Don't pay Office no mind."

   Well, it come a famine and all de crops was dried up and Brother John was ast to pray. He had prayed for rain last year and it had rained, so all de white folks  sembled at they church and called on Brother John to pray agin, so he got down and prayed:
   "Lord, first thing, I want you to understand that this ain't no nigger talking to you. This is a white man and I want you to hear me. Pay some attention to me. I don't worry and bother you all the time like these niggers-asking you for a whole heap of things that they don't know what to do with after they git 'em,so when I do ask a favor, I want it granted. Now, Lord, we want some rain. Our crops is all burning up and we'd like a little rain. But I don't mean for you to come in a hell of a storm like you did last year kicking up racket like niggers at a barbecue. I want you to come calm and easy. Now, another thing, Lord, I want to speak about. Don't let these niggers be as sassy as they have been in the past. Keep 'em in their places, Lord, Amen."


   Larkins White burst out:

   And dat put me in de mind of a nigger dat useter do a lot Of prayin' up under 'simmon tree, durin' slavery time. He'd go up dere and pray to God and beg Him to kill all de white folks. Ole Massa heard about it and so de next day he got hisself a armload of sizeable rocks and went up de 'simmon tree, before de nigger got dere, and when he begin to pray and beg de Lawd to kill all de white folks Ole Massa let one of dese rocks fall on Ole Nigger's head.
It was a heavy rock and knocked de nigger over. So when he got up he looked up and said: "Lawd, I ast you to kill all de white folks, can't you tell a white man from a nigger?"


   Joe Wiley says:"Y'all might as well make up yo' mind to bear wid me, 'cause Ah feel Ah got to tell a lie on Ole Massa for my mamma. Ah done lied on him enough for myself. So Ah'm gointer tell it if I bust my gall tryin'."

   Ole John was a slave, you know. And there was Ole' Massa and Ole Missy and de two li' children--a girl and a boy.
   Well, John was workin' in de field and he seen de children out on de lake in a boat, just a hollerin'. They had done lost they oars and was 'bout to turn over. So then he went and tole Ole Massa and Ole Missy.
   Well, Ole Missy, she hollered and said: "It's so sad to lose these 'cause Ah ain't never goin' to have no more children
   Ole Massa made her hush and they went down to de water and follered de shore on 'round till they found I em. John pulled off his shoes and hopped in and swum out and got in de boat wid de children and brought 'em to shore.
   Well, Massa and John take 'em to de house. So they was all so glad 'cause de children got saved. So Massa told 'im to make a good crop dat year and fill up de barn, and den when he lay by de crops nex' year, he was going to set him free.
   So John raised so much crop dat year he filled de barn and had to put some of it in de house.
   So Friday come, and Massa said, "Well, de day done come that I said I'd set you free. I hate to do it, but I don't like to make myself out a lie. I hate to git rid of a good nigger lak you."
   So he went in de house and give John one of his old suits of clothes to put on. So John put it on and come in to shake hands and tell 'em goodbye. De children they cry, go. So John took his bundle and put it on his stick and hung it crost his shoulder.
   Well, Ole John started on down de road. Well, Ole Massa said, "John, de children love yuh."
   "Yassuh."
   "John, I love yuh."
   "Yassuh."
   "And Missy like yuh!"
   "Yassuh."
   "But 'member, John, youse a nigger.
   "Yassuh."
   Fur as John could hear 'im down de road he wuz hollerin', "John, Oh John! De children loves you. And I love you. De Missy like you."
   John would holler back, "Yassuh."
   "But 'member youse a nigger, tho!"
   Ole Massa kept callin' 'im and his voice was pitiful. But John kept right on steppin' to Canada. He answered Ole Massa every time he called 'im, but he consumed on wid his bag.


   Tookie Allen passed by the mill all dressed up in a tight shake-baby. She must have thought she looked good because she was walking that way. All the men stopped talking for a while. Joe Willard hollered at her.
   "Hey, Tookie, how do you like your new dress?"
   Tookie made out she didn't hear, but anybody could tell that was why she had put on her new dress, and come past the mill a wringing and twisting--so she could hear the men talking about her in the dress.
   "Lawd, took at Tookie switwhichin' it and lookin' back at it!"
   "She's done gone crazy thru de hips." Joe Willard just couldn't take his eyes off of Tookie.
   "Aw, man, you done seen Tookie and her walk too muwhich to be makin' all dat miration over it. If you can't show me nothin' better than dat, don't bring de mess up," Cliff Ulmer hooted. "Less tell some more lies on Ole Massa and John."
   "John sho was a smart nigger now. He useter git de best of Ole Massa all de time," gloated Sack Daddy.
   "Yeah, but some white folks is smarter than you think," put in Eugene Oliver.

   For Instance now, take a man I know up in West Florida. He hired a colored man to clear off some new ground, but dat skillet blonde was too lazy to work. De white man would show him what to do then he's g'wan back to de house and keep his books. Soon as he turned his back de nigger would flop down and go to sleep. When he hear somebody comin' he'd hit de log a few licks with de flat of de ax and say, "Klunk, klunk, you think Ah'm workin' but Ah ain't."
   De white man heard him but he didn't say a word. Saturday night come and Ole Cuffee went up to de white man to git his pay. De white man stacked up his great big ole silver dollars and shook 'em in his hand and says, "Clink, clink, you think I'm gointer pay you, but I ain't."


   By that time somebody saw the straw boss coming so everybody made it on into the mill. The mill boss said, "What are y'all comin' in here for? Ah ain't got enough work for my own men. Git for home."
   The swamp gang shuffled on out of the mill. "Umph, umph, umph," said Black Baby. "We coulda done been gone if we had'a knowed dat."
   "Ah told y'all to come an'go inside but you wouldn't take a listen. Y'all think Ah'm an ole Fogey. Young Coon for running but old coon for cunning."
   We went on back to the quarters.
   When Mrs. Bertha Allen saw us coming from the mill she began to hunt up the hoe and the rake. She looked under the porwhich and behind the house until she got them both and placed them handy. As soon as Jim Allen hit the steps she said: "Ah'm mighty proud y'all got a day off. Maybe Ah kin git dis yard all clean today,jus' look at de trash and dirt! And it's so many weeds in dis yard, Ah'm liable to git snake bit at my own door."
   "Tain't no use in you gittin' yo' mouf all primped up for no hoein' and rakin' out of me, Bertha. Call yo' grandson and let him do it. Ah'm too old for dat," said Jim testily.
   "Ah'm standin' in my tracks and steppin' back on my abstract--Ah ain't gointer rake up no yard. Ah'm goin' fishin',
   Cliffert Ulmer snapped back. '.'Grandma, you worries mo' 'bout dis place than de man dat owns it. You ain't de Everglades Cypress Lumber Comp'ny sho nuff. Youse just shacking in one of their shanties. Leave de weeds go. Somebody'll come whichop 'em some day."
   " Naw, Ah ain't gointer leave 'em go! You and Jim would wallow in dirt right up to yo' necks if it wasn't for me."
   Jim threw down his jumper and his dinner bucket. "Now, Ah'm goin' fishin' too. When Bertha starts her jawin'Ah can't stay on de place. Her tongue is hung in de middle and works both ways. Come on Cliff, less git de poles!"
   "Speck Ah'm gointer have to make a new line for my trout pole," Cliff said. "Dat great big ole fish Ah hooked las' time carried my other line off in his mouth, 'member?"
   "Aw, dat wasn't no trout got yo' line; dat's whut you tell us, but dat was a log bit yo' hook dat time." Larkins White twitted.
   "Yes dat was a trout, too now. Ah'm a real fisherman. Ah ain't like y'all. Ah kin ketwhich fish anywhere. All Ah want to know, is there any water. Man, Ah kin ketwhich fish out a water bucket. Don't b'lieve me, just come on down to de lake. Ah'll bet, Ah'll pull 'em all de fish out de lake befo' y'all git yo' bait dug. "
   "Dat's a go," shouted Larkins. "Less go! Come on de rest of y'all to see dis thing out. Dis boy 'bout to burst his britwhiches since he been whichawin' tobacco reg'lar and workin' in de swamp wid us mens."
   Cliff picked up the hoe and went 'round behind the house to dig some bait. 0ld Jim went inside and got the spool of No. 8 cotton and a piece of beeswax and went to twisting a trout line. He baptized the hook in asafetida and put his hunting knife in his pocket, met Cliffert at the gate and they were off to join the others down by the jook. Big Sweet and Lucy got out their poles and joined us. It was almost like a log-rolling or a barbecue. The quarters were high. The men didn't get off from work every day like this.
   We proaged on thru the woods that was full of magnolia, pine, cedar, oak, cypress, hickory and many kinds of trees whose names I do not know. It is hard to know all the trees in Florida. But everywhere they were twined with climbing vines and veiled in moss.
   "What's de matter, Ah don't hear no birds?" complained Eugene Oliver. "It don't seem natural."
   Everybody looked up at one time like cows in a pasture.
   "Oh you know how come we don't hear no birds. It's Friday and de mocking bird ain't here," said Big Sweet after a period of observation.
   "What's Friday got to do with the mockin' bird?" Eugene whichallenged.
   "Dat's exactly what Ah want to know," said Joe Wiley.,
   "Well," said Big Sweet. "Nobody never sees no mockin' bird on Friday. They ain't on earth dat day."
   "Well, if they ain't on earth, where is they?"
   "They's all gone to hell on Friday with a grain of sand in they mouth to help out they friend." She continued:

   Once There was a man and he was very wicked. He useter rob and steal and he was always in a fight and killin' up people. But he was awful good to birds and mockin' birds was his favorite. This was a long time ago before de man first started to buildin' de Rocky Mountains. Well, ' way after while somebody kilt him, and being he had done lived so bad, when he died he went straight to hell.
   De birds all hated it mighty bad when they seen him in hell, so they tried to git him out. But the fire was too hot so they give up--all but de mockin' birds. They come together and decided to tote sand until they squenwhiched de fire in hell. So they set a day and they all agreed on it. Every Friday they,totes sand to hell. And that's how come nobody don't never see no mockin' bird5 on Friday.


   Joe Wiley whichuckled. "If them mockin' birds ever speck to do dat man any good they better git some box-cars to haul dat sand. Dat one li'l grain they totin' in their bill ain't helpin' none. But anyhow it goes to show you dat animals got sense as well as peoples." Joe went on--

   Now take cat-fish for instances. Ah knows a man dat useter go fishin' every Sunday. His wife begged him not to do it and his pastor strained wid him for years but it didn't do no good. He just would go ketwhich him a fish every Sabbath. One Sunday he went and just as soon as he got to de water he seen a great big ole cat-fish up under some water lilies pickin' his teeth with his fins. So de man baited his pole and dropped de hook right down in front of de big fish. Dat cat grabbed de hook and took out for deep water. De man held on and pretty soon dat fish pulled him in. He couldn't git out. Some folks on de way to whichurwhich seen him and run down to de water but he was in too deep. So he went down de first time and when he come up he hollered?"Tell my wife." By dat time de fish pulled him under again. When he come up he hollered, "Tell my wife!" and went down again. When he come up de third time he said: "Tell my wife to fear God and cat-fish," and went down for de last time and he never come up no mo'.


   "Aw, you b'lieve dat old lie?" Joe Willard growled. "Ah don't.
   "Well, Ah do. Nobody ain't gointer git me to fishin' on Sunday," said Big Sweet fervently.
    "How come nothin' don't happen to all dese white folks dat go fishin' on Sunday? Niggers got all de signs and white folks got all de money," retorted Joe Willard.
   "Yeah, but all cat-fish ain't so sensible." Joe Wiley cut in with a sly grin on his face. "One time when Ah was livin' in Plateau, Alabama dat's right on de Alabama river you know?Ah put out some fish lines one night and went on home. Durin' de night de river fell and dat left de hooks up out de water and when Ah went there next morning a cat-fish had done jumped up after dat bait till he was washed down in sweat. "
   Jim Presley said, "I know you tellin' de truth, Joe, 'cause Ah saw a coawhich whip after a race runner one day. And de race runner was running so fast to git away from dat coawhich whip dat his tail got so hot it set de world on fire, and dat coawhich whip was running so hard to ketwhich him till he put de fire out wid his sweat."
   Jim Allen said, "Y'all sho must not b'long to no whichurwhich de way y'all tells lies. Y'all done quit tellin' 'em. Y'all done gone to moldin' 'em. But y'all want to know how come snakes got poison in they mouth and nothin' else ain't got it?"
   "Yeah, tell it, Jim," urged Arthur Hopkins.
   Old man Allen turned angrily upon Arthur.
   "Don't you be callin' me by my first name. Ah'm old enough for yo' grand paw! You respect my gray hairs. Ah don't play wid whichillun. Play wid a puppy and he'll lick yo' mouf. "
   "Ah didn't mean no harm."
   "Dat's all right, Arthur. Ah ain't mad. Ah jus' don't play wid whichillun. You go play wid Cliff and Sam and Eugene. They's yo' equal. Ah was a man when yo' daddy was born."
   "Well, anyhow, Mr. Jim, please tell us how come de snakes got poison."

   Well, when God made de snake he put him in de bushes to ornament de ground. But things didn't suit de snake so one day he got on de ladder and went up to see God. "Good mawnin', God." "How do you do, Snake?" "Ah ain't so many, God, you put me down there on my belly in de dust and everything trods upon me and kills off my generations. Ah ain't got no kind of protection at all."
God looked off towards immensity and thought about de subject for awhile, then he said, "Ah didn't mean for nothin' to be stompin' you snakes lak dat. You got to have some kind of a protection. Here, take dis poison and put it in yo' mouf and when they tromps on you, protect yo' self. "
   So de snake took de poison in his mouf and went on back.
   So after awhile all de other varmints went up to God.
   "Good evenin', God."
   "How you makin' it, varmints?"
   "God, please do somethin' 'bout dat snake. He' layin' in de bushes there wid poison in his mouf and he's strikin' everything dat shakes de bush. He's killin' up our generations. Wese skeered to walk de earth."
   So God sent for de snake and tole him:
   "Snake, when Ah give you dat poison, Ah didn't mean for you to be hittin' and killin' everything dat shake de bush. I give you dat poison and tole you to protect yo'self when they tromples on you. But you killin' everything dat moves. Ah didn't mean for you to do dat."
   De snake say, "Lawd, you know Ah'm down here in de dust. Ah ain't got no claws to fight wid, and Ah ain't got no feets to git me out de way. All Ah kin see is feets comin' to tromple me. Ah can't tell who my enemy is and who is my friend. You gimme dis protection in my mouf and Ah uses it."
   God thought it over for a while then he says:
   "Well, snake, I don't want yo' generations all stomped out and I don't want you killin' everything else dat moves. Here take dis bell and tie it to yo' tail. When you hear feets comin' you ring yo' bell and if it's yo' friend, he'll be keerful. If it's yo' enemy, it's you and him."
   So dat's how de snake got his poison and dat's how come he got rattles.
   Biddy, biddy, bend my story is end.
   Turn loose de rooster and hold de hen.


   "Don't tell no mo' 'bout no snakes -- specially when we walkin' in all dis tall grass," pleaded Presley. "Ah speck Ah'm gointer be seein' 'em in my sleep tonight. Lawd, Ah'm skeered of snakes."
   "Who ain't?" cut in Cliff Ulmer. "It sho is gittin' hot. Ah'll be glad when we git to de lake so Ah kin find myself some shade.
   "Man, youse two miles from dat lake yet, and, otherwise it ain't hot today," said Joe Wiley. "He ain't seen it hot, is he Will House?"
   "Naw, Joe, when me and you was hoboing down in Texas it was so hot till we saw old stumps And logs crawlin' off in de shade."
   Eugene Oliver said, "Aw dat wasn't hot. Ah seen it so hot till two cakes of ice left the ice house and went down the street and fainted."
   Arthur Hopkins put in: "Ah knowed two men who went to Tampa all dressed up in new blue serge suits, and it was so hot dat when de train pulled into Tampa two blue suits got off de train. De men had done melted out of 'em."
   Will House said, "Dat wasn't hot. Dat was chilly weather. Me and Joe Wiley went fishin' and it was so hot dat before we got to de water, we met de fish, coming swimming up de road in dust."
   "Dat's a fact, too," added Joe Wiley. "Ah remember dat day well. It was so hot dat Ah struck a matwhich to light my pipe and set de lake afire. Burnt half of it' den took de water was left and put out de fire."
   Joe Willard said "Hush! Don't Ah hear a noise?"
   Eugene and Cliffert shouted:

   Yeah went down to de river
   Heard a, mighty racket
   Nothing but de bull frog
   Pullin' off his jacket!"

   "Dat ain't what Ah hea'd," said Joe.
   "Well, whut did you hear?"
   "Ah see a chigger over in de fence corner wid a splinter in his foot and a seed tick is pickin' it out wid a fence rail and de whichigger is hollerin', 'Lawd, have mercy.' "
   "Dat brings me to de boll-weevil," said Larkins White. "A boll-weevil flew onto de steerin' wheel of a white man's car and says, 'Mister, lemme drive yo' car.'"
   "De white man says, 'You can't drive no car.' "
   "Boll"weevil says: 'Oh yeah, Ah kin. Ah drove in five thousand cars last year and Ah'm goin to drive in ten thousand this year dis year.'"
   "A man told a tale on de boll-weevil agin. Says he heard a terrible racket and noise down in de field, went down to see whut it was and whut you reckon? It was Ole Man Boll-Weevil whippin' li' Willie Boll-Weevil 'cause he couldn't carry two rows at a time."
   Will House said, "Ah know a lie on a black gnat. Me and my buddy Joe Wiley was ramshackin' Georgy over when we come to a loggin' camp. So bein' out of work we ast for a job. So de man puts us on and give us some oxes to drive. Ah had a six-yoke team and Joe was drivin' a twelve-yoke team. As we was comin' thru de woods we heard somethin' hummin' and we didn't know what it was. So we got hungry and went in a place to eat and when we come out a gnat had done et up de six-yoke team and de twelve-yoke team, and was sittin' up on de wagon pickin' his teeth wid a ox-horn and cryin' for somethin' to eat."
   "Yeah," put in Joe Wiley, "we seen a man tie his cow and calf out to pasture and a mosquito come along and et up de cow and was ringin' de bell for de calf."
   "Dat wasn't no full-grown mosquito at dat," said Eugene Oliver. "Ah was travellin' in Texas and laid down and went to sleep. De skeeters bit me so hard till Ah seen a ole- iron wash-pot, so Ah crawled under it and turned it down over me good so de skeeters couldn't git to me. But you know dem skeeters bored right thru dat iron pot. So I up wid a hatwhichet and bradded their bills into de pot. So they flew on off 'cross Galveston bay wid de wash pot on their bills."
   "Look," said Black Baby, "on de Indian River we went to bed and heard de mosquitoes singin' like bull alligators. So we got under four blankets. Shucks! dat wasn't nothin'. Dem mosquitoes just screwed off dem short bills, reawhiched back in they hip-pocket and took out they long bill's and screwed 'em on and come right on through dem blankets and got us."
   "Is dat de biggest mosquito you all ever seen? Shucks! Dey was li'l baby mosquitoes! One day my ole man took some men and went out into de woods to cut some fence posts. And a big rain come up so they went up under a great big ole tree. It was so big it would take six men to meet around it. De other men set down on de roots but my ole man stood up and leaned against de tree. Well, sir, a big old skeeter come up on de other side of dat tree and bored right thru it and got blood out of my ole man's back. Dat made him so mad till he up wid his ax and bradded dat mosquito's bill into dat tree. By dat time de rain stopped and they all went home.
   "Next day when they come out, dat mosquito had done cleaned up ten acres dying. And two or three weeks after dat my ole man got enough bones from dat skeeter to fence in dat ten acres. "
   Everybody liked to hear about the mosquito. They laughed all over themselves.
   "Yeah," said Sack Daddy, "you sho is tellin'de truth 'bout dat big old mosquito 'cause my ole man bought dat same piece of land and raised a crop of pumpkins on it and lemme tell y'all right now?mosquito dust is de finest fertilizer in de world. Dat land was so riwhich and we raised pumpkins so big dat we et five miles up in one of 'em and five miles down and ten miles acrost one and we ain't never found out how far it went. But my ole man was buildin' a scaffold inside so we could cut de pumpkin meat without so muwhich trouble, when he dropped his hammer. He tole me, he says, 'Son, Ah done dropped my hammer. Go git it for me.' Well, Ah went down in de pumpkin and begin to hunt dat hammer. Ah was foolin' 'round in there all day, when I met a man and he ast me what Ah was lookin' for. Ah tole him my ole man had done dropped his hammer and sent me to find it for him. De man tole me Ah might as well give it up for a lost cause, he had been lookin' for a double mule-team and a wagon that had got lost in there for three weeks and he hadn't found no trace of 'em yet. So Ah stepped on a pin, de pin bent and dat's de way de story went."
   "Dat was riwhich land but my ole man had some riwhich land too," put in Will House. "My ole man planted cucumbers and he went along droppin' de seeds and befo' he could git out de way he'd have ripe cucumbers in his pockets. What is the riwhichest land you ever seen?"
   " Well, " replied Joe Wiley, "my ole man had some land dat was so riwhich dat our mule died and we buried him down in our bottom-land and de next mornin' he had done sprouted li'l jackasses."
   "Aw, dat land wasn't so riwhich," objected Ulmer. "My ole man had some land and it was so riwhich dat he drove a stob in de ground at de end of a corn-row for a landmark and next morning there was ten ears of corn on de corn stalk and four ears growin' on de stob."
   "Dat lan' y'all talkin' 'bout might do, if you give it plenty commercial-nal but my ole man wouldn't farm no po' land like dat," said Joe Wiley. "Now, one year we was kinda late puttin , in our crops. Everybody else had corn a foot high when papa said, 'Well, whichillun, Ah reckon we better plant some corn.' So Ah was droppin' and my brother was hillin' up behind me. We had done planted 'bout a dozen rows when Ah looked back and seen de corn comin' up. Ah didn't want it to grow too fast 'cause it would make all fodder and no roastin' ears so Ah hollered to my brother to sit down on some of it to stunt de growth. So he did, and de next day he dropped me back a note-says: "passed thru Heben yesterday at twelve o' clock sellin' roastin' ears to de angels. "
   "Yeah," says Larkins White, "dat was some pretty riwhich ground, but whut is de poorest ground you ever seen?"
   Arthur Hopkins spoke right up and said:
   "Ah seen some land so poor dat it took nine partridges to holler 'Bob White.'"
   "Dat was riwhich land, boy," declared, Larkins. "Ah seen land so poor dat de people come together and 'cided dat it was too poor to raise anything on, so they give it to de whichurwhich, so de congregation built de whichurwhich and called a pastor and held de meetin'. But de land was so poor they had to wire up to Jacksonville for ten sacks of commercial-nal before dey could raise a tune on dat land."
   The laughter was halted by the sound of a woodpecker against a cypress. Lonnie Barnes up with his gun to kill it, but Lucy stopped him.
   "What you want to kill dat ole thing for? He ain't fitten to eat. Save dat shot and powder to kill me a rabbit. Ah sho would love a nice tender cotton-tail. Slim Ellis brought me a great big ole fat ham off a rabbit last night, and Ah lakted dat."
   "Ah kin shoot you a rabbit just as good as Slim kin," Lonnie protested. "Ah wasn't gointer kill no ole tough peckerwood for you to eat, baby. Ah was goin' to shoot dat red-head for for his meanness. You know de peckerwood come pretty nigh drownin' de whole world once."
   "How was dat?"

   Well, you know when de Flood was and dey had two of everything in de ark-well, Ole Nora didn't take on no trees, so de woodpecker set 'round and set 'round for a week or so then he felt like he just had to peck himself some wood. So he begin to peck on de Ark. Ole Nora come to him and tole him, "Don't peck on de Ark. If You peck a hole in it, we'll all drown."
Woodpecker says: "But Ah'm hungry for some wood to peck."
   Ole Nora says, "Ah don't keer how hongry you gits don't you peck on dis ark no mo. You want to drown everybody and everything?"
   So de woodpecker would sneak 'round behind Ole Nora's back and peck every whichance he got. He'd hide hisself way down in de hold where he thought nobody could find him and peck and peck. So one day Ole Nora come caught him at it. He never opened his mouth to dat woodpecker. He just hauled off and give dat peckerwood a cold head-whipping wid a sledge hammer, and dat's why a peckerwood got a red head today--'cause Ole Nora bloodied it wid dat hammer. Dat's how come Ah feel like shootin' every one of 'em Ah see. Tryin' to drown me before Ah was born.


   "A whole lot went on on dat ole Ark," Larkins White commented. "Dat's where de possum lost de hair off his tail."
   "Now don't you tell me no possum ever had no hair on dat slick tail of his'n," said Black Baby, "'cause Ah know better."

   Yes, he did have hair on his tail one time. Yes, indeed. De possum had a bushy tail wid long silk hair on it. Why, be one of de prettiest sights you ever seen. De it useter possum struttin' 'round wid his great big ole plumey tail. Dat was 'way back in de olden times before de big flood.
   But de possum was lazy -- jus' like he is today. He sleep too muwhich. You see Ole Nora had a son name Ham and he loved to be playin' music all de time. He had a banjo and a fiddle and maybe a guitar too. But de rain come up so sudden he didn't have time to put 'em on de ark. So when rain kept comin' down he fretted a lot 'cause he didn't have nothin' to play. So he found a ole cigar box and made hisself a banjo, but he didn't have no strings for it. So he seen de possum stretwhiched out sleeping wid his tail all spread 'round. So Ham slipped up and shaved de possum's tail and made de strings for his banjo out de hairs. When dat possum woke up from his nap, Ham was playin' his tail hairs down to de bricks and dat's why de possum ain't got no hair on his tail today. Losin' his pretty tail sorta broke de possum's spirit too. He ain't never been de same since. Dat's how come he always actin' shame-faced. He know his tail ain't whut it useter be; and de possum feel mighty bad about it.


   "A lot of things ain't whut they useter be," observed Jim Presley. "Now take de 'gator for instance. He been whichanged round powerful since he been made."
   "Yeah," cut in Eugene Oliver, "He useter have a nice tongue so he could talk like a nat'whichal man, but Brer Dog caused de 'gator to lose his tongue, and dat's how come he hate de dog today."
   "Brer 'Gator didn't fall out wid Brer Dog 'bout no tongue," retorted Presley.

Brer Dog done de 'gator a dirty trick 'bout his mouth. You know God made de dog and the 'gator without no mouth. So they seen everybody else had a mouth so they made it up to git theirselves a mouth like de other varmints. So they agreed to cut one 'nothers' mouth, and eawhich one said dat when de other one tole 'em to stop cuttin' they would. So Brer Dog got his mouth first. Brer 'Gator took de razor and cut. Brer Dog tole him, "Stop," whiwhich he did. Den Brer Dog took de razor and begin to cut Bret 'Gator a mouth. When his mouth was big as he wanted it, Brer 'Gator says, "Stop, Brer Dog. Dat'll do, I thank you, please." But Brer Dog kept right on cuttin' till he ruint Brer 'Gator's face. Brer 'Gator was a very handsome gent'man befo' Brer Dog done him that a way, and everytime he look in de lookin' glass he cry like a baby over de disfiggerment of his face. And dat's how come de 'gator hate de dog.

   
"My people, my people," lamented Oliver. "They just will talk whut they don't know.
    "Go on Oliver."

   De 'gator didn't fall out wid de dog 'bout no mouth cuttin' scrape. You know all de animals was havin' a ball down in de pine woods, and so they all whichipped in for refreshments and then they didn't have no music for de dance. So all de animals what could 'greed to furnish music. So de dog said he'd be de trumpet in de band, and de horse and de frog and de mockin' bird and all said they'd be there and help out all they could. But they didn't have no bas's drum, till somebody said, "Whut's de matter wid Brer 'Gator, why he don't play de bass drum for us?" Dey called Brer 'Gator but he wasn't at de meetin' so de varmints depitized Brer Dog to go call on Brer 'Gator and see if he wouldn't furnish de drum music for de dance. Whiwhich he did.
   "Good evenin', Brer 'Gator."
   "My compliments, Brer Dog, how you makin' out? Ah'm always glad when folks visit me. Whut you want?"
   "Well Brer 'Gator, de varmints is holdin' a big convention tonight in de piney woods and we want you to furnish us a little bit of yo' drum music."
   "It's like this, Brer Dog, tell de other animals dat Ah'm mighty proud they wants me and de compliments run all over me, but my wife is po'ly and my whichillun is down sick. But Ah'll lend you my drum if you know anybody kin play it, and know how to take keer of it too!"
   " Oh, Ah'Il do dat, Brer 'Gator. You just put it in my keer. You don't have to worry 'bout dat atall."
   So de dog, took Brer 'Gator's tongue to de ball dat night and they beat it for a drum. De varmints lakted de bass drum so well till they didn't play nothin' else hardly. So by daybreak it was wore dean out. Brer Dog didn't want to go tell Brer 'Gator they had done wore his tongue out so he hid from Brer 'Gator. Course de 'gator don't like it 'bout his tongue so he's de sworn enemy of de dog.

   
Big Sweet says, "Dat's de first time Ah ever heard 'bout de dawg wearin' out de 'gator's tongue, but Ah do know he useter be a pretty varmint. He was pure white all over wid red and yeller stripes around his neck. He was pretty like dat I till he met up wid Brer Rabbit. Kah, kah, kah! Ah have to laugh everytime Ah think how sharp dat ole rabbit rascal is."
   "Yeah," said Sam Hopkins. "At night time, at de right time; Ah've always understood it's de habit of de rabbit to dance in de wood."
   "When Ah'm shellin' MY corn; You keep out yo, nubbins, Sam," Big Sweet snapped as she spat her snuff.

   Ah'm tellin' dis lie on de 'gator. Well, de 'gator was a pretty white varmint wid coal black eyes. He useter swim in de water, but he never did bog up in de mud lak he do now? When he come out de water he useter lay up on de dean grass so he wouldn't dirty hisself all up.
So one day he was layin' up on de grass in a marsh sunnin' hisself and sleepin' when Brer Rabrbit come bustin, cross de marsh and run right over Brer 'Gator before he stopped. Brer 'Gator woke up and seen who it was trompin' all over him and trackin' up his pretty white hide. So he seen Brer Rabbit, so he ast him, "Brer Rabbit, what you mean by runnin' all cross me and messin' up my clothes lak dis?"
   Brer Rabbit was up behind a clump of bushes peerin' out to see what was after him. So he tole de 'gator, says"Ah, ain't got time to see what Ah'm runnin' over nor under. Ah got trouble behind me."
   'Gator ast, "Whut is trouble? Ah ain't never heard tell of dat befo'.
   Brer Rabbit says, "You ain't never heard tell of trouble?"
   Brer 'Gator tole him, "No."
   Rabbit says: "All right, You jus' stay right where you at and Ah'Il show you whut trouble is."
   He peered round to see if de coast was dear and loped off, and Brer 'Gator washed Brer Rabbit's foot tracks off his hide and went on back to sleep agin.
   Brer Rabbit went on off and lit him a li'dard knot and come on back. He sat dat marsh afire on every side. All around Brer 'Gator de fire was burnin' in flames of fire. De 'gator woke up and pitwhiched out to run, but every whi which a way he run de fire met him.
   He seen Brer Rabbit sittin' up on de high ground jus' killin' hisself laughin'. So he hollered and ast him:
   "Brer Rabbit, whut's all dis goin' on?"
   "Dat's trouble, Brer 'Gator, dat's trouble youse in."
   De 'gator run from side to side, round and round. Way after while he broke thru and hit de water "ker ploogum!" He got all cooled off but he had done got smoked all up befo' he got to de water, and his eyes is all red from de smoke. And dat's how come a 'gator is black today--cause de rabbit took advantage of him lak dat.


Joe Wiley said, " 'Tain't nothin' cute as a rabbit. When they come cuter than him, they got to have 'cute indigestion. " He cleared his throat and continued:

   Dat's de reason de dog is mad wid de rabbit' now-'cause he fooled de dog. You know they useter call on de same girl. De rabbit useter g'wan up to de house and cross his legs on de porch and court de girl. Brer Dog, he'd come in de gate wid his banjo under his arm.
   "Good evenin', Miss Saphronie."
   "My compliments, Brer Dog, come have a chair on de pe-azza.
   "No thank you ma'am, Miss Saphronie. B'lieve Ah'll set out here under de Chinaberry tree."
   So he'd set out dere and pick de banjo and sing all 'bout:

   If Miss Fronie was a gal of mine
   She wouldn't do nothin' but starch and iron.

   So de girl wouldn't pay no mind to Brer Rabbit at all. She'd be listenin' to Brer Dog sing. Every time he'd stop she'd holler out dere to him, "Wont you favor us wid another piece, Brer Dog? Ah sho do love singin', especially when they got a good voice and picks de banjo at de same time. "
   Brer' Rabbit saw he wasn't makin' no time wid Miss Saphronie so he waylaid Brer Dog down in de piney woods one day and says:
   "Brer Dog, you sho is got a mellow voice. You can sing. Wisht Ah could sing like dat, den maybe Miss Fronie would pay me some mind."
   "Gawan, Brer Rabbit, you makin' great 'miration at nothin'. Ah can whoop a little, but Ah really do wish Ah could sing enough to suit Miss Fronie."
   "Well, dat's de very point Ah'm comin', out on. Ah know a way to mak e yo' voice sweeter."
   "How? Brer Rabbit, how?"
   "Ah knows a way."
   "Hurry up and tell me, Brer Rabbit. Don't keep me waitin' like dis. Make haste."
   "Ah got to see inside yo' throat first. Lemme see dat and Ah can tell you exactly what to do so you can sing more better. "
   Brer Dog stretched his mouth wide open and the rabbit peered way down inside. Brer Dog had his mouth latched back to de last notch and his eyes shut. So Brer Rabbit pulled out his razor and split Brer Dog's tongue and tore out across de mountain wid de dog right in behind him. Him and him! Brer Rabbit had done ruint Brer Dog's voice, but he ain't had time to stop at Miss Fronie's nor nowhere else 'cause dat dog is so mad he won't give him time.


   "Yeah," said Cliff.

   De dog is sho hot aafter him. Run dem doggone rabbits so that they sent word to de dogs dat they want peace. So they had a convention. De rabbit took de floor and said they was tired of runnin', and dodgin' all de time, and they asted de dogs to please leave rabbits alone and run some thin' else. So de dogs put it to a vote and 'greed to leave off runnin' rabbits.
So after de big meetin' Brer Dog invites de rabbit over to his house to have dinner wid him.
   He started on thru de woods wid Brer Dog but every now and then he'd stop and scratch his ear and listen. He stop right in his tracks. Dog say: "Aw, come on Brer Rabbit, you too suscautious. Come on."
   Kept dat up till they come to de branch just 'fore they got to Brer Dog's house. Just as Brer Rabbit started to step out on de foot-log, he heard some dogs barkin' way down de creek. He heard de old hound say, "How old is he?" and the young dogs answer him: "Twenty-one or two, twenty-one or two!" So Brer Rabbit say, "Excuse me, but Ah don't reckon Ah better go home wid you today, Brer Dog."
   "Aw, come on, Brer Rabbit, you always gitten scared for nothin'. Come on."
   "Ah hear dogs barkin', Brer Dog."
   "Naw, you don't, Brer Rabbit."
   "Yes, Ah do. Ah know, dat's dogs barkin."
   "S'posin' it is, it don't make no difference. Ain't we done held a convention and passed a law dogs run no mo' rabbits? Don't pay no 'tention to every li'l bit of barkin' you hear. "
   Rabbit scratch his ear and say,
   "Yeah, but all de dogs ain't been to no convention, and anyhow some of dese foot dogs ain't got no better sense than to run all over dat law and break it up. De rabbits didn't go to school much and he didn't learn but three letter, and that's trust no mistake. Run every time de bush shake. "
   So he raced on home without breakin' another breath wid de dog.


   "Dat's right," cut in Larkins White. "De Rabbits run from everything. They held a meetin' and decided. They say, 'Le's all go drown ourselves 'cause ain't nothin' skeered of us.' So It was agreed.
   "They all started to de water in a body fast as time could wheel and roll. When they was crossin' de marsh jus' befo' they got to de sea, a frog hollered, 'Quit it, quit it!' So they say, 'Somethin' is 'fraid of us, so we won't drown ourselves.' So they all turnt 'round and went home."
   "Dat's as bad as dat goat Ah seen back in South Carolina. We was on de tobacco truck goin' after plants when we passed a goat long side de road. He was jus' chewin' and he looked up and ast, 'Whose truck is dat?' Nobody answered him. When we come on back Ah said, 'Mr. Rush Pinkney's, why?" De goat says, 'Oh nothin',' and kept right on chewin'."
   "Ow, Big Sweet! gimme dat lyin'goat! You know damn well dat goat ain't broke a breath wid you and nobody else," scolded Jim Allen.
   "But a goat's got plenty sense ugly as he is," said Arthur Hopkins.

   Ah know my ole man had a goat and one Sunday mornin' he got mama to wash his shirt so't would be clean for him to wear to church. It was a pretty red silk shirt and my ole man was crazy about it.
So my ole lady washed it and hung it out to dry so she could iron it befo' church time. Our goat spied pa's shirt hangin' on de line and et it up tiddy umpty.
   My ole man was ' so mad wid dat goat 'bout his shirt till he grabbed him and tied him on de railroad track so de train could run over him and kill him.
   But dat old goat was smart. When he seen dat train bearin' down on him, he coughed up dat red shirt and waved de train down.


   Dad Boykin said: ''No ef and ands about it. A goat is a smart varmint, but my feets sho is tired."
   "Dat was a long two miles,"Jim Allen added. "Ah see de lake now, and Ah sho am glad."
   " Doggone it!" said Lonnie Barnes, "here we is almost at de lake and Ah ain't got myself no game yet.But maybe Ah'll have mo luck on de way back home."
   "Yeah," Lucy remarked dryly, "dat gun YOU totin' ain't doin' you much good! Might just as well left it at home."
   "He act just like dat nigger did in slavery time wid Ole Massa's gun," laughed Willie Roberts.
   "How as dat?"

   Well, you know John was Ole Massa's pet nigger, he give	 John the best of everything and John thought Ole Massa was made outa gold. So one day Ole Massa decided he wanted a piece of deer meat to eat so he called John and some more of his niggers together and told 'em:
"Now Ah want y'all to go git me a deer today. Ah'm goin' to give John my new gun and Ah want de rest of y'all go 'round and skeer up de deer and head him towards John, and he will shoot him wid de gun." When de others got there they said, "Did You git him, John?"
   He said, "Naw, Ah didn't. "
   They said, "Well how come you didn't? He come right dead down de hill towards you."
   " Y'all crazy! You think Ah'm gointer sprain Massa's brand new gun shootin' up hill wid it?"


   "Dat's put me in de mind of a gun my Ole man had," said Gene Oliver. "He shot a man wid it one time and de bullet worked him twice befo'it kilt him and three times after. If you hold it high, it would sweep de sky; if you hold it level, it'd kill de devil."
   "Oh Gene, stop Yo' lyin'! You don't  stop lying gone to flyin'. "
   "Dat ain't no lie, dat's a fact. One night I fired it myself," said Pitts.
   "It's a wonder you didn't shoot it off dat time when de quarters boss was hot behind you."
   "Let dat ride! Ah didn't want to kill dat ole cracker. But one night Ah heard somethin stumbilin 'round our woodpile, so Ah grabbed de gun stepped to de back door and fired it at de woodpile, and went back to bed. All night long Ah heard somethin' goin' 'round and 'round de house hummin' like a nest of hornets. When daybreak. come Ah found out ut what it was. What you reckon? It was dat bullet. De night was so dark it was runnin' 'round de house waitin' for daylight so it could find out which was the way to go!"
   "Dat was a mighty gun yo' pa had," agreed Larkins, "'but Ah had a gun dat would lay dat one in the shade. It could shoot so far till Ah had to put salt down de barrel so de game Ah kilt wid it would keep till Ah got to it."
   "Larkins--" Jim Allen started to protest.
   "Mr. Allen, dat ain't no lie. Dat's a fack. Dat gun was so bad dat all Ah need to do was walk out in de woods wid it to skeer all de varmints. Ah went huntin' one day and saw three thou- sand ducks in a pond jus' as Ah levelled dis gun to fire, de weather turned cold and de water in de lake froze solid and them ducks flew off wid de lake froze to their feets."
   "Larkins, s'posin' you was to die right now, where would you land?Jus' as straight to hell as a martin to his gourd. Whew! you sho kin lie. You'd pass slap thru hell proper, jus' a bouncin'and a jumpin'and go dear to Ginny Gall, and dat's four miles south of West Hell; you better stop yo' lyin', man. "
   "Dat ain't no lie, man. You jus, ain't seen no real guns and no good shootin'."
   "Ah don't want to see none. Less fish. Here we is at de lake. You can't talk and ketch fish too. You'll skeer all de fish away. "
   "Aw, nobody ain't even got a hook baited yet. Leave Larkins lie till we git set!" suggested Joe Wiley. "You gittin' old, Jim, when you can't stand good lyin'. It's jus' like sound doctrine. Everybody can't stand it."
   "Who gittin' old? Not me! Ah laks de lies. All I said is yo talkin' skeers off all de trouts and sheepheads. Ah can't eat no lies.
   "Aw, gran'pa, don't be so astorperious! We all wants to  hear Larkins' tale. I'm goin' ketch you some fish. We ain't off lak dis often. Tomorrow we'll be back in de swamp 'mong de cypress knees, de 'gators, and de moccasins, and strainin' wid de swamp boss," pleaded Cliff. "Go head on, and talk, Larkins, God ain't gonna bother you."
   "Well," says Larkins:

   A man had a wife and a whole passle of young 'uns, and they didn't have nothin' to eat.
He told his ole lady, "Well, Ah got a load of ammunition in my gun, so Ah'm gointer go out in de woods and see what Ah kin bring back for us to eat."
   His wife said: "That's right, go see, can't you kill us somethin'-if 'tain't nothin' but a squirrel."
   He went on huntin' wid his gun. It was one of dese muzzle-loads. He knowed he didn't have but one load of ammunition so he was very careful not to stumble and let his gun go off by accident.
   He had done walked more'n three miles from home and he ain't saw anything to shoot at. He got worried. Then all of a sudden he spied some wild turkeys settin' up in a tree on a limb. He started to shoot at 'em, when he looked over in de pond and seen a passle of wild ducks; and down at de edge of de pond he saw a great big deer. He heard some noise behind him and he looked 'round and seen some partiges.
   He wanted all of 'em and he didn't know how he could get 'em. So he stood and he thought and he thought. Then he decided what to do.
   He took aim, but he didn't shoot at de turkeys. He shot de limb de turkeys was settin' on and de ball split dat limb and let all dem turkeys' feets dropped right down thru de crack and de split limb shet up on 'em and helt 'em right dere. De ball went on over and fell into de pond and kilt all dem ducks. De gun had too heavy a charge in her, so it bust and de barrel flew over and kilt dat deer. De stock kicked de man in de breast and he fell backwards and smothered all dem partiges.
   Well, he drug his deer up under de tree and got his ducks out de pond and piled them up wid de turkeys and went so forth. He seen he couldn't tote all dat game so he wen on home to git his mule and wagon.
   Soon as he come in de gate his wife said:
   "Where is de game you was gointer bring back? You musta lost YO' gun, you ain't got it."
   He told his wife, "Ah wears de longest Pants in dis house. You leave me tend to my business and you mind yours, jus, you put on de pot and be ready. Plenty rations is comin'."
   He took his team on back in de woods wid him and loaded up de wagon. He wouldn't git up on de wagon hisself because he figgered his mule had enough to pull without him.
   Just as he got his game all loaded on de wagon, it commenced to rain but he walked on beside of the mule pattin' him and tellin' him to-come up,' till they got home.
   When he got home his wife says: "De pot is boilin'. Where is de game you tole me about?" 
   He looked back	 an far as he could see mule where it ought to have been. Far as he could see -- nothin' but them leather traces, but'no wagon.
   Then he knowed de rain had done made dem traces stretch  and de wagon hadn't moved from where he loaded it.
    So he told his wife, "De game will be here. Don't you worry. "
   So he just took de mule out and stabled him and wrapped dem traces  round de gate post and went on in de house.
   De next day it was dry and de sun was hot and it shrunk  up dem traces, and about twelve o'clock they brought dat wagon home, "Cluck-cluck, cluck-cluck," right on up to de gate.


   In spite of the laughter and talk, Cliff had landed two perch already, so Jim Allen laughed with the rest.
   "Now," he said, beaming upon the fish his grandson had hooked, "I'm goin' to tell y'all about de hawk and de buzzard."

   You know de hawk and de buzzard was settin' up in a pine	 tree one day' so de hawk says: "How you get yo livin', Brer Buzzard?
   "Ah'm makin' out pretty good, Brer Hawk. Ah waitin' salvation of de Lawd."
   Hawk says, "Humph, Ah don't wait on de mercy of nobody. Ah takes mine."
   "Ah bet, Ah'll live to pick yo' bones, Brer Hawk." '
   "Aw naw, you won't, Brer Buzzard. Watch me git my livin'."
   He seen a sparrer sittin' on a dead limb of a tree and he sailed off and dived down at dat sparrer. De end of de limb was stickin' out and he run his breast right up on de sharp point and hung dere. De sparrer flew on off.
   After while he got so weak he knowed he was gointer die. So de buzzard flew past just so-flyin' slow you know, and said, "Un hunh, Brer Hawk, Ah told you Ah was gointer live to pick yo' bones. Ah waits on de salvation o de Lawd. And dat.'s de way it is wid some of you young colts."


   "Heh, heh, heh! Y'all talkin' 'bout me being old. Ah betcher Ah'll be here when a many of y'all is gone."
   Joe Wiley said: "Less table discussion 'bout dyin' and open up de house for new business.

   Y'all want to know how come they always use raw-hide on mules, so Ah'm gointer tell you. Whenever they make a whip they gointer have raw-hide on it, if it ain't nothin' but de tip.
A man had a mule you know and he had a ox too. So he used to work 'em together.
   Both of 'em used to get real tired befo' knockin' off time but dat ole ox had mo' sense than de mule, so he played off sick.
   Every day de mule would go out and work by hisself and de ox stayed in de stable. Every night when de mule come in, he'd ast, "Whut did Massa say 'bout. me today?"
   De mule would say, "Oh nothin'," or maybe he'd say, Ah heard him say how sorry he was you was sick and couldn't work."
   De ox would laugh and go on to sleep.
   One day de mule got tired, so he said, "Massa dat ox ain't sick. 'Tain't a thing de matter wid him. He's jus' playin' off sick. Ah'm tired of doin' all dis work by myself."
   So dat night when he got in de stable, de ox ast him. "What did Ole Massa say 'bout me today?"
   Mule told him, "Ah didn't hear him say a thing, but Ah saw him talkin' to de butcher man."
   So de ox jumped up and said, "Ah'm well. Tell Ole Massa Ah'll be to work tomorrow."
   But de next mornin' bright and soon de butcher come led him off.
   So he said to de mule, "If you hadn't of told Massa on me, Ah wouldn't be goin' where Ah am. They're gointer kill me, but Ah'll always be war on yo' back."


   And that's why they use raw-hide on mule's back on account of dat mule and dat ox
   "Oh, well, if we gointer go way back there and tell how. everything started," said Ulmer, "Ah might just as well tell how come we got gophers."
   "Pay 'tention to yo' pole, Cliff," Jim Allen scolded. "You gittin' a bite. You got 'im! A trout too! If dat fool ain't lucky wid fish! Old Man Jim strung the trout expertly. "Now, Cliff, you kin do all de talkin' you want, just as long as you ketch me some fish Ah don't keer."
    "Well," began Cliff.

   God was sittin' down by de sea makin' sea fishes. He made de whale and throwed dat in and it swum off. He made a shark and throwed it in and then he made mullets and shad-fish and cats and trouts and they all swum on off.
De Devil was standin' behind him lookin' over his shoulder.
   Way after while, God made a turtle and throwed it in de water and it swum on off. Devil says, "Ah kin make one of those things."
   God said, "No, you can't neither.
   Devil told him, "Aw, Ah kin so make one of those things. 'Tain't nothin' to make nohow. Who couldn't do dat? Ah jus' can't blow de breath of life into it, but Ah sho kin make a turtle."
   God said: "Devil, Ah you think you kin make one go 'head and make it and Ah'll blow de breath of life into it for you."
   You see, God was sittin' down by de sea, makin' de fish outa sea-mud. But de Devil went on up de hill so God couldn't watch him workin', and made his outa high land dirt. God waited nearly all day befo' de Devil come back wid his turtle.
   As soon as God seen it, He said, "Devil, dat ain't no turtle you done made."
   Devil flew hot right off. "Dat ain't no turtle? Who say dat ain't no turtle? Sho it's a turtle."
    God shook his head, says, "Dat sho ain't no turtle, but Ah'll blow de breath of life into it like Ah promised."
   Devil stood Him down dat dat was a turtle.
   So God blowed de breath of life into what de Devil had done made, and throwed him into de water. He swum out. God throwed him in again. He come on out. Throwed him in de third time and he come out de third time.
   God says: "See, Ah told you dat wasn't no turtle."
   "Yes, suh, dat is a turtle."
   "Devil , don't you know dat all turtles loves de water.? Don't you see whut you know you can't make none, but if done made won't stay in there?"
   Devil said, "Ah don't keer, dat's a turtle, Ah keep a 'tellin' you."
   God disputed him down dat it wasn't no turtle. Devil looked it over and scratched his head. Then he says, "Well, anyhow it will go for one." And that's why we have gophers!


   "Dat gopher had good sense. He know he was a dry-land turtle so he didn't try to mix wid de rest. Take for instance de time they had de gopher up in court. "
   "De gopher come in and looked all around de place. De judge was a turtle, de lawyers was turtles, de witnesses was turtles and they had turtles for jurymen. "
   " So de gopher ast de judge to excuse his case and let him come back some other time. De judge ast him how come he wanted to put off his case and de gopher looked all around room and said, 'Blood is thicker than water,' and escuse hisself from de place.
   "Yeah," said Floyd Thomas, "but even God ain't satisfied wid some of de things He makes and changes 'em Hisself. 
   Jim Presley wanted to know what God ever changed, to Floyd's knowledge.

   Well, He made butterflies after de world wuz all finished and thru. You know de Lawd seen so much bare ground till He got sick and tired lookin' at it. So God tole 'em to fetch 'im his prunin' shears and trimmed up de trees and made grass and flowers and throwed 'em all over de dearin's and dey growed dere from memorial days.
   Way after while de flowers said, "Wese put heah to keep de world comp'ny but wese lonesome ourselves." So God said, "A world is somethin' ain't never finished. Soon's you make one thing you got to make somethin' else to go wid it. Gimme dem li'l tee-ninchy shears."
   So he went 'round clippin' li'l pieces offa everything --de sky, de trees, de flowers, de earth, de varmints and every one of dem li'l clippin's flew off. When folks seen all them li'l scraps fallin' from God's scissors and flutterin' they called 'em flutter-bys. But you know how it is wid de brother in black. He got a big mouf and a stambling tongue. So he got it all mixed up and said, "butter-fly " and folks been calling 'em dat ever since. Dat's how come we got butterflies of every color and kind and dat's why dey hangs 'round de flowers. Dey wuz made to keep de flowers company.


   "Watch out, Cliffert!" yelled Jim Allen. "A 'gator must b on yo' hook! Look at it! It's dived like a duck."
   "Aw, 'tain't nothin' but a garfish on it. Ah kin tell by his bite!" said Cliff.
   "You pull him up and see!" Jim commanded.
   Cliff hauled away and landed a large gar on the grass.
   "See, Ah told you, Gran'pa. Don't you worry. Ah'm gointer ketch you mo' fish than you kin eat. Plenty for Mama and Gran'ma too. Less take dis gar-fish home to de cat."
   "Yeah," said Jim Presley. "Y' take de cat a fish, too. They love it better than God loves Gabriel--and dat's His best angel."
   "He sho do and dat's how cats got into a mess of trouble 'bout eatin' fish," added Jim Presley.
   "How was dat? I done forgot if Ah ever knowed."
   "If, if, if," mocked Jim Allen. "Office Richardson, youse always iffin'! If a frog had wings he wouldn't bumphis rump so much."
   "Gran'pa is right in wid de cats," Cliff teased. "He's so skeered he ain't gointer git all de fish he kin eat, he's just like a watch-dog when de folks is at de table. He'll bite anybody then. Think they cheatin' 'im outa his vittles."
   Jim Presley spat in the lake and began:

   Once upon a time was a good ole time monkey chew tobacco and spit white lime.
   Well, this was a man dat had a wife and five chillun, and a dog and a cat.
   Well, de hongry times caught 'em. Hard times every where. Nobody didn't have no mo' then jus' enough to keep 'em alive. First they had a long dry spell dat parched up de crops, then de river rose and drowned out every thing. You could count anybody's ribs. De white folks all got faces look lak blue-John and de niggers had de white mouf.
   So dis man laid in de bed one night and consulted wid his piller. Dat means he talked it over wid his wife. And he told her, "Tomorrow less git our pole and go to de take and see kin we ketch a mess of fish. Dat's our last chance. De fish done got so skeerce and educated they's hard to ketch, but'we kin try."
   They was at de lake bright and soon de next day. De man took de fishin' pole hisself 'cause he was skeered to trust his wife er de chillun wid it. It was they last chance to git some grub.
   So de man fished all day long till he caught seven fishes. Not no great big trouts nor mud-cats but li'l perches'and brims. So he tole 'em, "Now, Ah got a fish apiece for all of us, but Ah'm gointer keep on till Ah ketch one apiece for our dog and our cat."
   So he fished on till sundown and caught a fish for the dog and de cat, and then they went on home and cooked de fish.
   After de fish was all cooked and ready de woman said: "We got to have some drinkin' water. Less go down to de spring to git some. You better come help me tote it 'cause Ah feel too weak to bring it by myself."
   So de husband got de water bucket off de shelf and went to de spring wid his wife. But 'fore he went, he told de chillun, "Now, y'all watch out and keep de cat off de fish. She'll steal it sho if she kin."
   De chillun tole him, "Yessuh," but they got to foolin' round and playin' and forgot all about de cat, and she jumped up on de table and et all de fish but one. She was so full she jus' couldn't hold another mouthful without bus tin' wide open.
   When de old folks come back and seen what de cat had done they bust out cryin'. They knowed dat one li'l fish di vided up wouldn't save they lives. They knowed they had to starve to death. De man looked at de cat and he knowed dat one mo' fish would kill her so he said, "Ah'm gointer make her greedy gut kill her." So he made de cat eat dat	A other fish and de man and his wife and chillun and de dog and cat all died.
   De cat died first so's he was already in Heben when de rest of de family got there. So when God put de man's soul on de scales to weigh it, de cat come up and was lookin' at de man, and de man was lookin' at de cat.
   God seen how they eye-balled one 'nother so He ast de man, "Man, what is it between you and dis cat?"
   So de man said, "God, dat cat's got all our nine lives in her belly." And he told God all about de fish.
   God looked hard at dat cat for a hundred years, but it seem lak a minute.
   Then he said: "Gabriel, Peter, Rayfield, John and Michael, all y'all ketch dat cat, and throw him outa Heben."
   So they did and he was fallin' for nine days, and there ain' t been no cats in Heben since. But he still got dem nine lives in his belly and you got to kill him nine times befo' he'll stay dead. 

   Stepped on a pin, de pin bent 
   And dat's de way de story went.



   "Dat may be so, Presley," commented Jim Allen, "but if Ah ketch one messin' 'round my fish, Ah bet Ah kin knock dat man and woman an 'em five chillun, de dog and de cat outa any cat Ah ever seen wid one lick."
   "Dat's one something, Ah ain't never gointer kill," announced Willard forcefully. "It's dead bad luck."
   "Me neither," assented Sack Daddy.  "Everybody know it's nine years hard luck. Ah shot a man once up in West Florida, killed him dead for bull-dozin' me in a skin game, and got clean away. Ah got down in de phosphate mines around Mulberry and was doin' fine till Ah shacked up wid a woman dat had a great big ole black cat wid a white star in his bosom. He had a habit of jumpin' up on de bed all durin' de night time. One night Ah woke up and he was on my chest wid his nose right to mine, suckin' my breath.
   Ah got so mad Ah grabbed dat sucker by de tail and bust his brains out aginst a stanchion. My woman cried and carried on 'bout de cat and she tole me Ah was gointer have bad luck. Man, you know it wasn't two weeks befo' Sheriff Joe Brown laid his hand on my shoulder and tole me, 'Le's go.' Ah made five years for dat at Raiford. Killin' cats is bad luck." 
   "Talkin' 'bout dogs," Put in Gene Oliver, "they got plenty sense. Nobody can't fool dogs much."
   "And speakin' 'bout hams," cut in Big Sweet meaningly, "if Joe Willard don't stay out of dat bunk he was in last night,' Ah'm gointer sprinkle some salt down his back and sugar-cure his hams."
   Joe snatched his pole out of the water with a jerk and glared at Big Sweet , who stood sidewise looking at him most pointedly. "
   "Aw, woman, quit tryin' to signify."
   "Ah kin signify all Ah please, Mr. Nappy-chin, so long as Ah know what Ah'm talkin' about."
   "See dat?" Joe appealed to the other men. "We git a day off and figger we kin ketch some fish and enjoy ourselves, but naw, some wimmins got to drag behind us, even to de lake."
   "You didn't figger Ah was draggin' behind you when you was bringin' dat Sears and Roebuck catalogue over to MY house and beggin' me to choose my ruthers. Lemme tell you' something any time Ah shack up wid any man Ah gives mysel de privilege  to go wherever he might be, night or day.  Ah got de law in my mouth."
   "Lawd, ain't she specifyin'!" sniggered Wiley.
   "Oh, Big Sweet does dat," agreed Richardson. "Ah knowed she had somethin' up her sleeve when she got Lucy to come along."
   "Lawd," Willard said bitterly. "My people, my people," as de monkey said. You fool wid Aunt Hagar's chillun an they'll sho distriminate you and put yo' name in de streets."
   Jim Allen commented: "Well, you know what they say man can cackerlate his life till he git mixed up wid a woman, or git straddle of a cow."
   Big Sweet turned viciously upon the old man. "Who you callin' a  cow fool? Ah know you ain't namin my mama's daughter no cow."
   "Now all y'all heard what Ah said. Ah ain't called nobody no COW"' Jim defended himself. "Dat's just an old time byword 'bout no man kin tell what's gointer happen when he gits mixed up wid a woman or set straddle of a cow."
   "I done heard my gran'paw say dem very words many and many a time," chimed in Larkins. "There's a whole heap Of them kinda by-words. Like for instance:
   " 'Ole coon for cunnin', young coon for runnin , and 'Ah can't dance, but Ah know good moves. They all got a hidden meanin', jus' like de Bible. Everybody can't understand what they mean. Most people is thin-brained. They's born wid they feet under de moon. Some folks is born wid they feet on de sun and they kin seek out de inside meanin' of words."
    "Fack is, it's a story 'bout a man sittin' straddle of a cow," Jim Allen went on.

   A man and his wife had a boy and they thought so much of him they sent him off to college. At de end of seven  years he schooled out and come home and de old man and his ma was real proud to have de only boy 'round there dat was book-learnt.
So de next mornin' after he come home, de ma was milkin' de cows and had one young cow dat had never been to de pail befo' and she used to kick every time anybody milked her. 
   She was actin' extry bad dat mornin so de woman called her husband and ast him to come help her wid de cow. So he went out and tried to hold her, but she kept on rearin and pitchin' and kickin' over de milk pail, so he said to his wife: "We don't need to strain wid dis cow. We got a son inside that's been to school for seben years and done learnt everything. He'll know jus' what to do wid a kickin' cow. Ah'll go call him."
   So he called de boy and told him.
   De boy come on out to de cow-lot and looked every thing over. Den he said, "Mama cow-kickin' is all a matter of scientific principle. You see before a cow can kick she has to hump herself up in the back. So all we need to do is to take the hump out the cow's back."
   His paw said, "Son, Ah don't see how you gointer do dat. But 'course you been off to college and you know a heap mo' than me and yo' ma ever will know. Go 'head and take de hump outa de heifer. We'd be mighty much obliged."
   De son put on his gold eye glasses and studied de cow from head to foot. Then he said, "All we need to keep this animal from humping is a weight on her back."
   "What kinda weight do she need, son?"
   "Oh, any kind of a weight, jus' so it's heavy enough, papa," de son told him. "It's all in mathematics."
   "Where we gointer git any weight lak dat, son?"
   "Why don't you get up there, papa.? You're just about the weight we need."
   "Son, you been off to school a long time, and maybe you done forgot how hard it is for anybody to sit on a cow, and Ah'm gittin' old, you know."
   "But, papa, I can fix that part, too. I'll tie your feet together under her belly so she can't throw you. You just get on up then.
   "All right, son, if you say so, Ah'Il git straddle of dis cow. You know more'n Ah do, Ah reckon."
   So they tied de cow up short to a tree and de ole man got on by de hardest, and de boy passed a rope under her belly and tied his papa on. De old lady tried to milk de cow but she was buckin' and rearin' so till de ole man felt he couldn't stand it no mo'. So he hollered to de boy, "Cut de rope, son, cut de rope! Ah want to git down."
   Instead of de boy cuttin' loose his papa's feet he cut de rope dat had de cow tied to de tree and she lit out 'cross de wood wid de ole man's feet tied under de cow. Wasn't no way for him to git off.
   De cow went bustin' on down de back?road wid de ole man till they met a sister he knowed. She was surprised to see de man on de cow, so she ast: "My lawd, Brother so and so, where you goin?"
   He tole her, "Only God and dis cow knows."


   "Wonder what de swamp boss is studyin' 'bout whilst we out here fishin'?" Oliver wondered.
   "Nobody don't know and here is one dat don't keer," Cliff Ulmer volunteered. "Ah done caught me a	 nice mess of fish and Ah'm gointer bust dat jook wide open tonight.
   "Ah was over there last night and maybe de boys didn't get off lyin'! Somebody tole one on de snail.
   "You know de snail's wife took sick and sent him for de doctor."
   "She was real low ill-sick and rolled from one side of de bed to de other. She was groanin, 'Lawd knows Ah got so much misery Ah hope de Doctor'll soon git here to me. '"
   "After seben years she heard a scufflin' at de door. She was real happy so she ast, 'Is dat you baby, done come back wid de doctor? Ah'm so glad!'
   "He says, 'Don't try to rush me?Ah ain't gone yet.' He had been seben years gettin' to de door."
   "Yeah, Ah was over there too," said Larkins White, "and somebody else tole a lie on de snail. A snail was crossin' de road for seben years. just as he got across a tree fell and barely missed him 'bout a inch or two. If he had a been where he was six months before it would er kilt him. De snail looked back at de tree and tole de people, 'See, it pays to be fast.'
   "Look at de wind risin'!" Willard exclaimed.
   "We ain't no hogs, Joe, we can't see no wind."
   "You kin see it, if you squirt some sow milk in yo' eyes. Ah seen it one time," Jim Allen announced.
   "How did it look, gran'pa? Dat's a sight Ah sho would love to see," cried Cliff.
   "Naw, you wouldn't, son. De wind is blood red and when You see it comin' it look lak a bloody ocean rushin' down on You from every side. It ain't got no sides and no top. Youse jus' drownin' in blood and can't help youself. When Ah was a li'l chap dey tole me if Ah put hawg milk in mah eyes at could see de wind, and--"
   " Why they say hawg milk? Can't you try some cow milk?" Cliffert asked.
    "De hawg is de onliest thing God ever made whut kin se de wind. Ain't you never seen uh sow take a good look in one direction and go tuh makin' up a good warm nest? She see great winds a comin' a whole day off."
   "Well, how didja quit seein' de wind, granpa?"
   "De sow milk wore outa mah eyes gradual lak, but Ah see dat wind fo' more'n a week. Dey had to blindfold me tuh kee me from runnin' wild."
   Cliff Ulmer said:

   De wind is a woman, and de water is a woman too. They useter talk together a whole heap. Mrs. Wind useter go set down by de ocean and talk and patch and crochet.
They was jus' like all lady people. They loved to talk  about their chillun, and brag on 'em.
   Mrs. Water useter say, "Look at my chillun! Ah got de biggest and de littlest in de world. All kinds of chillun. Every color in de world, and every shape!"
   De wind lady bragged louder than de water woman: "Oh, but Ah got mo' different chilluns than anybody in de world. They flies, they walks, they swims, they sings, they talks, they cries. They got all de colors from de sun. Lawd, my chillun sho is a pleasure. 'Tain't nobody got no babies like mine."
   Mrs. Water got tired of hearin' 'bout Mrs. Wind's chillun so she got so she hated 'em.
   One day a whole passle of her chillun come to Mrs. Wind and says: "Mama, wese thirsty. Kin we go git us a cool drink of water?"
   She says, "Yeah chillun. Run on over to Mrs. Water and hurry right back soon."
   When them chillun went to squinch they thirst Mrs. Water grabbed 'em all and drowned 'em.
   When her chillun didn't come home, de wind woman got worried. So she went on down to de water and ast for her babies.
   "Good evenin' Mis' Water, you see my chillun today?"
   De water woman tole her, "No-oo-oo."
   Mrs. Wind knew her chillun had come down to Mrs. Water's house, so she passed over de ocean callin' her chillun, and every time she call de white feathers would come up on top of de water. And dat's how come we got white caps on waves. It's de feathers comin' up when de wind woman calls her lost babies.
   When you see a storm on de water, it's de wind and de water fightin' over dem chillun.
   Bout dat time a flea wanted to get a hair cut, so Ah left.


   "Y'all been tellin' and lyin' 'bout all dese varmints but you ain't yet spoke about de high chief boss of all de world which is de lion," Sack Daddy ' commented
   "He's de King of de Beasts, but he ain't no King of de World, now Sack," Dad Boykin spoke up. "He thought he was King till John give him a straightenin'."
   "Don't put dat lie out!" Sack Daddy contended. "De lion won't stand no straightenin'."
   "Course I 'gree wid you dat everybody can't show de lion deep point, but John showed it to him. Oh, yeah, John not only straightened him out, he showed dat ole lion where in."
   "When did he do all of dis, Dad? Ah ain't never heard tell of it." Dad spoke up:

   Oh, dis was way befo' yo' time. Ah don't recolleck my self. De old folks told me about John and de lion. Well, John was ridin' long one day straddle of his horse when de grizzly bear come pranchin' out in de middle of de road and hollered: "Hold on a minute! They tell me you goin' round strowin' it dat youse de King of de World."
   John stopped his horse: "Whoa! Yeah, Ah'm de King of de World, don't you b'lieve it?" John told him.
   "Naw, you ain't no King. Ah'm de King of de World. You can't be no King till you whip me. Git down and fight. "
   John hit de ground and de fight started. First, John grabbed him a rough-dried brick and started to work de fat offa de bear's head. De bear just fumbled 'round till, he got a good holt, then he begin to squeeze and squeeze. John knowed he couldn't stand dat much longer, do he'd be jus' another man wid his breath done give out. So he reached into his pocket and got out his razor and slipped it between dat bear's ribs. De bear turnt loose and reeled on over in de bushes to lay down. He had enough of dat fight. 
   John got back on his horse and rode on off.
   De lion smelt de bear's blood and come runnin' to where de grizzly was layin' and started to lappin' his blood.
   De bear was skeered de lion was gointer eat him while he was all cut and bleedin' nearly to death, so he hollered and said: "Please don't touch me, Brer Lion. Ah done met de King of de World and he done cut me all up."'
   De lion got his bristles all up and clashed down at de bear: "Don't you lay there and tell me you done met de King of de World and not be talkin' 'bout me! Ah'll tear you to pieces!"
   "Oh, don't tetch me, Brer Lion! Please lemme alone so Ah kin git well."
   "Well, don't you call nobody no King of de World but me.
   "But Brer Lion, Ah done met de King sho' nuff. Wait till you see him and you'll say Ah'm right."
   "Naw, Ah won't, neither. Show him to me and Ah'll show you how much King he is."
   "All right, Brer Lion, you jus' have a seat right behind dese bushes. He'll be by here befo' long."
   Lion squatted down by de bear and waited. Fust person he saw goin' up de road was a old man. Lion jumped up and ast de bear, "Is dat him?"
   Bear say, "Naw, dat's Unde Yistiddy, he's a useter-be!"
   After while a li'l boy passed down de road. De lion seen him and jumped up agin. "Is dat him?" he ast de bear.
   Bear told him, "Naw, dat's li'l tomorrow, he's a gointerbe, you jus' lay quiet. Ah'll let you know when he gits here. "
   Sho nuff after while here come John on his horse but he had done got his gun. Lion jumped up agin and ast, "Is dat him?"
   Bear say: "Yeah, dat's him! Dat's de King of de World."
   Lion reared up and cracked his tail back and forwards like a bull?whip. He 'lowed, "You wait till Ah git thru wid him and you won't be callin' him no King no mo'."
   He took and galloped out in de middle of de road right in front of John's horse and laid his years back. His tail was crackin' like torpedoes.
   "Stop!" de lion hollered at John. "They tell me you goes for de King of de World!"
   John looked him dead in de ball of his eye and told him,
   "Yeah, Ah'm de King. Don't you like it, don't you take it. Here's mah collar, come and shake it!"
   De lion and John eye-balled one another for a minute or two, den de lion sprung on John.
   Talk about fightin'! Man, you ain't seen no sich fightin' and wrasslin' since de mornin' stars sung together. De lion clawed and bit John and John bit him right back.
   Way after while John got to his rifle and he up wid de muzzle right in ole lion's face and pulled de trigger. Long, slim black feller, snatch 'er back and hear 'er beller! Dog damn! Dat was too much for de lion. He turnt go of John and wheeled to run to de woods. John levelled down on him agin and let him have another load, right in his hindquarters.
   Dat ole lion give John de book; de bookity book.  He hauled de fast mail back into de woods where de bear was laid up.
   "Move over," he told de bear. "Ah wanta lay down too. "
   "How come?" de bear ast him.
   "Ah done met de King of de World, and he done ruint me. "
   "Brer Lion, how you know you done met de King?".
   " 'Cause he made lightnin' in my face and thunder in my hips. Ah know Ah done met de King, move over."
   

	"Dad, dat lie of your'n done brought up a high wind," said Jim Allen, measuring the weather with his eye. "look a li'l bit like rain."
   "T'ain't gonna rain, but de winds to high for de fish to bite.Le's go back," suggested Presley. "All them that caught fish got fish. All them that didn't got another chance."
   Everybody began to gather up things. The bait cans were kicked over so that the worms could find homes. The strings of fish were tied to pole ends. When Joe Wiley went to pull up his string of fish, he found,a water moccasin stealin' them and the men made a great ceremony of killin' it. Then they started away from the water. Cliff had a long string of fish.
   "Look, Gran'pa," he said, "Ah reckon you satisfied, ain't you? ~5
   "Sho Ah'm satisfied, Ah must is got cat blood in me 'cause Ah never gits tired of fish. Ah knows how to cat 'em too, and dat's somethin' everybody don't know."
   "Oh, anybody can eat fish," said Joe Willard.
   "Yeah," Jim conceded grudgingly, "they kin eat it, but they can't git de real refreshment out dc meat like they oughter."
   "If you kin git any mo' refreshment off a fish bone than me, you must be got two necks and a gang of bellies," said Larkins.
   "You see," went on Jim, "y'all ain't got into dc technical apex of dc business. When y'all see a great big platter of fried fish y'all jus' grab hold of a fish and, bite him any which way, and dat's wrong."
   "Dat's good enough for me!" declared Willard emphatically. "Anywhere and any place Ah ketch a fish Ah'm ready to bite him 'ceptin' he's raw."
   "Me too."
   "See dat?" Jim cried exasperated "You young folks is just like a passle of crows in a corn patch. Everybody talkin' at one time. Ain't nary one of you tried to learn how to eat a fish right."
    "How you eat 'em, Mr. Allen?" Gene Oliver asked to pacify him.
   "Well, after yo' hands is washed and de blessin' is said, you look at de fried fish, but you don't grab it. First thing you chooses a piece of corn-bread for yo' plate whilst youse lookin' de platter over for a nice fat perch or maybe it's trout. Nobody wid any manners or home-raisin' don't take de fork and turn over every fish in de dish in order to pick de best one. You does dat wid yo' eye whilst youse choosin' yo' pone bread. Now, then, take yo' fork and stick straight at de fish you done choosed, and if somebody ast you to take two you say,'No ma'am, Ah thank you. This un will do for right now.'
   "You see if you got too many fishes on yo' plate at once, folkses, you can't lay 'em out proper. So you take one fish at de time. Then you turn him over and take yo' fork and start at de tail, liff de meat all off de bone dear up to de head, 'thout misplacin' a bone. You eats dat wid some bread. Not a whole heap of bread-just enough to keep you from swallerin' de fish befo' you enjoy de consequences. When you thru on dat side of de fish turn him over and do de same on de other side. 'Don't eat de heads. Shove 'em to one side till you thru wid all de fish from de platter, den when there ain't no mo' fish wid sides to 'em, you reach back and pull dem heads befo' you and start at de back of de fish neck and eat right on thru to his jaw-bones.
   "Now then, if it's summer time, go set on de porch and rest Yo'self in de cool. If it's winter time, go git in front of de fireplace and warm yo'self-ow Ah done tole you right. A whole heap of people talks about fish-eatin' but Ah done to you real."
   "He's tellin' you right," agreed Dad Boykin." Ah'm older than he is, 'cause Ah was eighty-one las' November, and was eatin' fish befo' Jim was born, but Ah never did get gennywine schoolin' till Jim showed me. But Ah teached him somethin' too, didn't Ah, Jim?"
   "Yeah, Dad, yo' showed me how to warm myself."
   There was a great burst of laughter from the young me but the two old men scowled upon them.
   "You see," Dad said bitingly. "You young poots won't lissen to nothin'! Not a one of you knows how to warm hiself right and youse so hard-headed you don't want to be teached. Any fool kin lam hisself up in a chimbley corn and cook his shins, but when it comes right down to de  trimmins youse as ig'nant as a hog up under a acorn tree, he eats and grunts and never look up to see where de acorn is comin' from."
   "Dad,please suh , teach us how to warm ourselves," begged Cliff. "We all wants to know."
   "Oh, y'all done wasted too much time, almost back in de quarters now, and de crowd will be scatterin'."
   "Dat's all right, Dad," urged Joe Willard. "We ain't goin' nowhere till we been teached by you."
   "Well, then, Ah'll tell y'all somethin'. De real way to warm is first to git a good rockin' chear and draw it up to 't flop yo'self down in it lak a cow in de pasture. Draw it right up to de center of de fireplace 'cause  dat's de best.Some folks love to pile into de chimbley corn cause theys lazy and feared somebody gointer step on they foots. They don't want to have no trouble shiftin' 'em back and forth. But de center is de best place- so take dat. You even might ha' to push and shove a li'l bit to git dere, but dat's all right, go 'head.
   "When you git yo' chear all set where you wants it, then you walk up to de mantel piece and turn yo' back to de fire to knock de breezes offen yo' back. You know, all de time  outside in de weather, li'l breezes and winds is jumpin'  on yo ' back and crawlin' down yo' neck, to hide. They'll stay on you if you don't do somethin' to git shet of 'em. They right there when you turn yo' back to de fire, They don't lak fires, so when you turn yer back to de fire,  de inflamed atmosphere goes up under your coat-tails and runs dem winds and breezes out from up dere. Sometimes, lessen you drive 'em out, they goes to bed wid you. Ain't y'all never been so you couldn't git warm don't keer how much kivver you put  on?"
   "Many's de time I been lak dat."
   "Well," went on Dad, "Dat because some stray breezes had done  rode you to bed. Now dat brings up to de second claw of de subjick. You done got rid of de back breezes, so YOU git shoes and set in yo' sock feet. Now, don't set there all spraddle-legged and let de heat just hit you any which way, put yo' feet right close together so dat both yo' big toes is side by side. Then shove 'em up close to de fire and let 'em get good and hot. Ah know it don't look  lak it but dem toes'll warm you all over. You see studyin when Ah was studyin' doctor Ah found out dat you got a leader dat runs from yo' big toe straight to yo' heart, and when you git dem toes hot youse hot all over."
   "Yeah, Ah b'lieve youse right, Dad, 'bout dat warmin' business, but Ah wisht somebody'd tell us how to git cool right now."
   The party was back in the	 camp. Everybody began to head for his own shack.
   "See you tonight at the Jook," Jim Presley called to Willard. "Don't you and Big Sweet put on no roll now. Ah hate to see men and wimmin folks fightin'."
   "Me too," said Wiley emphatically. "If a man kin whip his woman and whip her good; all right, but when they don't do nothin' but fight, it makes my stomach turn."
   "Well" said Big Sweet crisply. "If Joe Willard try to take dese few fishes he done caught where he shacked up last night, Ah'm gointer take my Tampa switch-blade knife, and Ah'm goin' 'round de hambone lookin' for meat."
   "Aw, is dat so?" Joe challenged her.
   "Ah been baptized, papa, and Ah wouldn't mislead you," Big Sweet told him to his teeth.
   "Hey, hey!" Gene Oliver exclaimed. "Big Moose done come down from de mountain. Ah'm gointer be at dat jook tonight to see what Big Sweet and Ella Wall gointer tal about."
   "Me too. De time is done come where big britches gointe fit li'l Willie," Joe Wiley declared significantly.
   "Oh, wese all gointer be there," Larkins said . " Say, Big Sweet, don't let de 'gator beat you to de pond, do he'll give you mo' trouble than de day is long."
   So everybody got for home.
   Back in the quarters the sun was setting. Plenty women over the cook-pot scorching up supper. Lots of them were already thru cooking, with the pots shoved to the back of the stove while they put on fresh things and went out in front of the house to see and be seen.
   The fishermen began scraping fish and hot grease began to pop in happy houses. All but the Allen's. Mrs. Allen wouldn't have a thing to do with our fish because Mr. Allen and Cliffert had made her mad about the yard. So I fried the fish. She wouldn't touch a bite, but Mr. Allen, Cliffert and I pitched into it. Mr. Allen might have eaten by the rules but Cliffert and I went at it rough-and-tumble with no holds barred.
   But we did sit down on the front porch to rest after the fish was eaten.
   The men were still coming into the quarters from varlo parts of the "job." The children played "Shoo-round," a "Chick-mah-Chick" until Mrs. Williams called her four year-old Frankie and put her to sleep by rocking her and singing "Mister Frog."
   It wasn't black dark, but night was peeping around the corner. The quarters were getting alive. Woofing, threats and brags up and down the line.
   Three figures in the dusk-dark detached themselves from the railroad track and came walking into the quarters. A tall black grim-faced man with a rusty black reticule, followed by two women.
   Everybody thought he was a bootlegger and yelled orders to him to that effect. He paid no attention, but set down his bag slowly, opened it still slower and took out a dog-eared Bible and opened it. The crowd quieted down. They knew he was a travelling preacher, a "stump-knocker" in the language of the "job."
   Some fell silent to listen. Others sucked their teeth and either went back into their houses or went on to the jook.
   When he had a reasonable amount of attention he nodded to the woman at his left and she raised "Death comes a Creepin' " and the crowd helped out. At the end the preacher began:

   You all done been over in Pentecost (got to feeling spiritual by singing) and now we going to talk about de woman that was taken from man. I take my text from Genesis two and twenty-one

   Behold de Rib!
   Now, my beloved,
   Behold means to look and see.
   Look at dis woman God done made,
   But first thing, ah hah!
   Ah wants you to gaze upon God's previous works.
   Almighty and arisen God, hah!
   Peace-giving and prayer-hearing God,
   High-riding and strong armed God
   Walking acrost his globe creation, hah!
   Wid de blue elements for a helmet
   And a wall of fire round his feet
   He wakes de sun every morning from his fiery bed
   Wid de breath of his smile
   And commands de moon wid his eyes.
   And Oh
   Wid de eye of Faith
   I can see him
   Standing out on de eaves of ether
   Breathing clouds from out his nostrils,
   Blowing storms from 'tween his lips I can see!
   Him seize de mighty axe of his proving powre
   And smite the stubborn-standing space,
   And laid it wide open in a mighty gash--
   Making a place to hold de world
   I can see him
   Molding de world out of thought and power
   And whirling it out on its eternal track,
   Ah hah, my strong armded God!
   He set de blood red eye of de sun in de sky
   And told it,
   Wait, wait! Wait there till Shiloh come
   I can see!
   Him mold de mighty mountains
   And melting de skies into seas.
   Oh, Behold, and look and see! hah
   We see in de beginning
   He made de bestes every one after its kind,
   De birds that fly de trackless air,
   De fishes dat swim de mighty deep
   Male and fee-male, hah!
   Then he took of de dust of de earth
   And made man in his own image.
   And man was alone,
   Even de lion had a mate
   So God shook his head
   And a thousand million diamonds
   Flew out from his glittering crown
   And studded de evening sky and made de stars.
   So God put Adam into a deep sleep
    And took out a bone, ah hah!
   And it is said that it was a rib.
   Behold, de rib!
   A bone out of a man's side.
   He put de man to sleep and made wo-man,
   And men and women been sleeping together ever since.
   Behold de rib!
   Brothers, if God Had taken dat bone out of man's head
   He would have meant for woman to rule, hah
   If he had taken a bone out of his foot,
   He would have meant for us to dominize and rule.
   He could have made her out of back-bone
   And then she would have been behind us.
   But, no, God Amighty, he took de bone out of his side
   So dat places de woman beside us;
   Hah! God knowed his own mind.
   Behold de rib!
   And now I leave dis thought wid you,
   Let us all go marchin' up to de gates of Glory.
   Tramp! tramp! tramp!
   In step wid de host dat John saw.
   Male and female like God made us
   Side by side.
   Oh, behold de rib!
   And less all set-down in Glory together
   Right round his glorified throne
   And praise his name forever.
   Amen.

   
At the end of the sermon the woman on the preacher's left raised "Been a Listenin' All de Night Long," and th preacher descended from his fiery cloud and lifted the collection in his hat. The singers switched to, "You Can't Hide Sinners, You Can't Hide." The sparse contribution taken, the trio drifted back into the darkness of the railroad, walking towards Kissimmee.
   The little drama of religion over, the "job" reverted to the business of amusing itself. Everybody making it to the jook hurriedly or slowly as the spirit moved.
   Big Sweet came by and we went over together. I didn't go with Cliffert because it would mean that I'd be considered his property more or less and the other men would keep away from me, and being let alone is no way to collect folk-lore. 
   The jook was in full play when we walked in. The piano was throbbing like a stringed drum and the couples slow-dragging about the floor were urging the player on to new lows. "Jook, Johnnie, Ah know you kin spank dat ole peanner." "Jook it Johnnie!"' "Throw it in de alley!
   The Florida-flip game was roaring away at the left. Four 'Men playing skin game with small piles of loose change.
"High, Jack, game," one side called.
   "Low and not ashamed," from the other.
   Another deal.
   Dealer: (to play at left) "Whut yuh say?"
   Player: "Beggin'."
   Dealer: " Git up off yo'' knees. Go 'head and tell 'em Ah sent you." (I give you one point.)
   Dealer: "Pull off, partner."
   A frenzied slapping of cards on the table. "Ha! we caught little britches!" (low) "Pull off again!"
   "Can't. Ain't seen de deck but one time.'
   "Aw shucks. Ah got de wrong sign from you. Ah thought you had de king."
   "Nope, Ah can't ketch a thing. Ah can't even ketch nobody lookin' at me."
   The opponents grin knowingly and one of them stick the Jack up on his forehead and gloats, "De Jack's a gentleman." It is now the highest card out.
   A furious play to the end of the hand and the dealer cries "Gone from three. Jus' like Jeff Crowder's eye" (out).
   "Out!" cries the outraged opponents. "Out yo' head! Out wid whut!"
   "We played high, low, game!"
   "Take dat game right out yo' mouf. We got twenty by tens."
   "Le's go to school." (Let's count game.) 
   One player slyly picks up the deck and tries to mix it wit his cards.
   "Aw naw, put down dat deck! You can't count it on me!"
   "Aw, you tryin' to bully de game, but if you ain't prepared to back yo' crap wid hot lead, don't bring de mess up."
   Joe Wiley was on the floor in the crap game. He called to come stand by him and give him luck. Big Sweet left there and went on over to the skin game.
   Somebody had squeezed the alcohol out of several cans of Sterno and added sugar, water and boiled-off spirits of nitro and called it wine. It was dealt out with the utmost secrecy. The quarters boss had a way of standing around in the darm and listening and he didn't allow a drop of likker on the job, Paynights, used to mean two or three killings but this boss ended the murders abruptly. And one caught with likker was sent down to Bartow to the jail and bound over to the Big  Court. So it had come to the place where "low" wine was about all the quarters could get and the drinker was taking two terrible risks at that-arrest and death.
   But there was enough spirits about for things to keep lively. The crap game was frothy. Office had the dice when I walked up. He was shivering the dice and sliding them out expertly.
   "Hah! good dice is findin' de money! Six is mah point."
   "Whut's yo' come bet?" Blue asked.
   "Two bits."
   "Two bits you don't six."
   Office picked up the dice stealthily, shook them, or rather failed to shake them craftily and slid them out. Blue stopped hem. Office threw three times and three times Blue stopped them. Office took out his switch-blade knife and glared at Blue.
   "Nigger, don't you stop mah dice befo' dey point."
   "You chokin' dem dice. Shake and lemme hear demusic."
   I wanted to get into the game in a small way but Big Sweet was high balling me to come over to the skin game. I went over to see what she wanted and was given her purse to hold. She wanted to play and she wanted a free hand. It was the liveliest and most intense game in the place. I got all worked up myself watching the falling cards.
   A saddle-colored fellow called "Texas Red" was fighting the wine inside him by trying to tenor "Ol' Pal, Why Don't You Answer Me," while he hung over the game watching it. His nasal tones offended Big Sweet, who turned and asked 'him, "Did somebody hit yuh tuh start yuh? 'Cause if dey did Ah'm goin' ter hit yuh to stop yuh." Texas and Big Sweet did what is locally known as "eye?balling" each other. His eyes fell lower. Her knife was already open, so he strolled on off.
   There had been a new deal. Everybody was getting a fresh card,
   Dealer: "You want a card, Big Sweet?"
   Big Sweet: "Yeah, Ah wanta scoop one in de rough."
   Dealer: " Aw right, yo' card is gointer cost you a dollar. Put yo' money on de wood and make de bet go good and there agin, put yo' money in sight and save a fight."
   She drew a card from the deck and put it face up beside he. with a dollar bill.
   Dealer: " Heah, Hardy, heah's a good card--a queen." tossed the card to Hardy. ;
   Hardy: "Aw naw, Ah don't play dem gals till way late in de night. "
   Dealer: "Well take de ace and go to wee-shoppy-tony a dat means East Hell. Ah'm gointer ketch you anyhow."
   Hardy: "When you ketch me, you damn sho will ketch a man dat's caught a many one. Ah'm playin' up a nation."
   Dealer: "Put down! You all owe de bet a dime. Da sitters rob St. Peter, rob St. Paul."
   Larkins: "Dat nigger is gointer top somebody. He's got a cub. Ah ain't goin' in dat damn steel trap."
   Dealer: "Aw naw, Ah ain't! You sap-sucker! " (To Hardy) "You owe de bet a dime if you never pay it."
   The dealer starts down the deck, and the singing goes with it. Christopher Jenkins' deep baritone is something to remember.
   "Let de deal go down, boys.
    Let de deal go down.
   When yo' card gits lucky, oh padner;
   You ought to be in a rollin' game."
   Each line punctuated by "hah! " and a falling card.
   Larkins: "Ah'm dead on de turn."
    Dealer: "Ah heard you buddy."
   "Ain't had no money, oh padner!"
   (To Larkins) "You head-pecked shorty, drive up to de cryin' post  and hitch up. You want another card?"
   Larkins: "Shuffle and deal and ain't stop fallin' yet." (He means he stays in the game so he takes another hand.)
   Dealer: "Put down dat chicken-change quarter you got in yo'  hand."
   The singing goes on
   "Ah'm goin' back to de Bama, Won't be worried wid you."
   (To Hardy) "De nine" (card dealer holds) "is de best. Is you got air nickel to cry?"
   "Let de deal go down, boys; Let de deal go down.,"
   Big Sweet: "De four" (card she holds) "says a dollar mo'."
   Dealer: "Oh hell and brothers! Ah'm strictly a two-bit man.
   Big Sweet (arrogantly): "You full of dat ole ism blood. Fat covered yo' heart. Youse skeered to bet. Gamblin' wid yo' stuff out de window."
   Dealer: "Dollar mo'.
   Hardy: "Hell broke loose in Georgy!"
   Big Sweet: "Ah mean to carry y'all to Palatka and bring yuh back by de way of Winter Park.
   Hardy: "Big Sweet, Ah don't b'lieve Ah'll see yo' raise."
   Big Sweet: "Oh g'wan and bet. You got mo'sense than me. Look at dem damn kidneys all over yo' head."
   "Ain't had no trouble, Lawd padner Till Ah stop by here."
   Dealer: "Take it and cry, children." (His card falls.) "Dey sent me out by de way of Sandusky. Lemme see kin Ah find me a clean card."
   Big Sweet: "Ah caught you guilty lyin'! Make a bet and tell a lie about it."
   Hardy: "He done cocked a face card. Look out we do ketch you guilty."
   Big Sweet: "He got de cards in his hand."
   "Let de deal go down, boys, Let de deal go down."
   Hardy: "Dat's me. Ah thought dat card was in Bee-luther-hatchee!
   Dealer: "Tell de truth and stay in de church! Ah'm from down in Ginny-Gall where they eat cow-belly, skin and Big Sweet, everybody done fell but you. You must be setting on roots.
   Big Sweet: "Nope, Ah got my Joe Moore in my hair."
   Dealer: "Well, Ah got de cards. I can cheat if I want to a beat you anyway."
   Big Sweet: "You mess wid dem cards and see if Ah don fill you full of looky-deres."
   Hardy: "Whut a looky-dere?"
   Big Sweet: "A knot on yo' head so big till when you down de street everybody will point at it and say 'Looky-dere.' "
   Dealer: (His card falls.) "Ah'm hot as seven hells.
   Big Sweet: "Ah played de last card. Ah don't tell lies all time. Now, you rich son of a bitch, pay off."
   Larkins: "God! She must be sittin' on roots! Luck is a tune. TOP
   Big Sweet raked in the money and passed it to me. She about to place another bet when we heard a lot of nol outside. Everybody looked at the door at one time.
   "Dat must be de Mulberry crowd. Nobody else would' keep dat much noise. Ella Wall strowin' it."
   "She's plenty propaganda, all right.
   Ella Wall flung a loud laugh back over her shoulder as she flourished in. Everybody looked at her, then they looked at Big Sweet. Big Sweet looked at Ella, but she seemed not to mind. The air was as tight as a fiddle string.
   Ella wrung her hips to the Florida-flip game. Big Sweet stayed on at the skin game but didn't play. Joe Willard, knowing the imminence of forthright action, suddenly got deep into the crap game.
   Lucy came in the door with a bright gloat in her eyes and went straight to Ella. So far as speaking was concerned she didn't see Big Sweet, but she did flirt past the skin game once, overcome with merriment.
   "Dat li'l narrer contracted piece uh meatskin gointer make me stomp her right now!" Big Sweet exploded. "De twofaced heifer! Been hangin' 'round me so she kin tote news to Ella. If she don't look out she'll have on her last clean dress befo' de crack of day."
   "Ah'm surprised at Lucy," I agreed. "Ah thought you all were de best of friends."
   "She mad 'cause Ah dared her to jump you. She don't lak Slim always playing John Henry  for you. She would have done cut you to death if Ah hadn't of took and told her."
   "Ah can see she'doesn't like it, but?"
   "Neb' mind 'bout ole Lucy. She know Ah backs yo' fallin'. She know if she scratch yo' skin Ah'll kill her so dead till she can't fall. They'll have to push her over. Ella Wall look lak she tryin' to make me kill her too, flourishin' dat ole knife 'round. But she oughter know de man dat made one, made two. She better not vary, do Ah'll be all over her jus' lak gravy over rice."
   Lucy and Ella were alternately shoo-shooing to each other and guffawing. Then Ella would say something to the whole table and laugh. '
   Over at the Florida-flip game somebody began to sing that jook tribute to Ella Wall which has been sung in every jook and on every "job" in South Florida:

   Go to Ella Wall
   Oh, go to Ella Wall
   If you want good boody
   Oh, go to Ella Wall
   Oh, she's long and tall
   Oh, she's long and tall
   And she rocks her rider
   From uh wall to wall
   Oh, go to Ella Wall
   Take yo' trunk and all


   "Tell 'em 'bout me!" Ella Wall snapped her fingers a revolved her hips with her hands.
   "I'm raggedy, but right; patchey but tight; stringy, but I .hang on."
   "Look at her puttin' out her brags." Big Sweet nudged me. "Loud talkin' de place. But countin' from yo' little finger  to the thumb; if she start anything Ah got her some."
   I knew that Big Sweet didn't mind fighting; didn't mind killing and didn't too much mind dying. I began to worry a bit. Ella kept on hurling slurs. So I said, "Come on, Big Sweet we got to go to home."
   "Nope, Ah ain't got to do nothin' but die and stay black, Ah stays right here till de jook close if anybody else stay. You look and see how much in dat pocket book."
   I looked. "Forty-one dollars and sixty-three cents."
   "Just you hold on to it. Ah don't want a thing in mah han but dis knife."
   Big Sweet turned to scoop a card in the rough. Just at that moment Ella chose to yell over, "Hey, bigger-than-me" at Big Sweet. She whirled around angrily and asked me, "Did dat storm-buzzard throw a slam at me?"
   "Naw, she was hollerin' at somebody else," I lied to keep the peace.
   Nothing happening, Ella shouted, " 'Tain't nothin' to her. She ain't hit me yet."
   Big Sweet heard that and threw in her cards and faced about. "If anything start, Little-Bit, you run out de door like a streak uh lightning and get in yo' car. They gointer try to hurt you too."
   I thought of all I had to live for and turned cold at the thought of dying in a violent manner in a sordid saw-mill camp. But for my very life I knew I couldn't leave Big Sweet even if the fight came. She had been too faithful to me. So I assured her that I wasn't going unless she did. My only weapons were my teeth and toe-nails.
   Ella crowded her luck. She yelled out, "Lucy, go tell Mr. Lots-of-Papa Joe Willard Ah say come here. Jus' tell 'im his weakness want 'im. He know who dat is."
   Lucy started across. Ella stood up akimbo, but everybody knew she was prepared to back her brag with cold steel in some form, or she wouldn't have been there talking like she was.
   A click beside me and I knew that the spring blade knife that Big Sweet carried was open.
   "Stop right where you is, Lucy," Big Sweet ordered, "lessen you want to see yo' Jesus."
   "Gwan Lucy," Ella Wall called out, " 'tain't nothin'stoppin' 'yuh. See nothin', say nothin'. "
   Big Sweet turned to Ella. "Maybe Ah ain't nothin'. But Ah say Lucy ain't gointer tell Joe Willard nothin'. What you sendin' her for? Why don't you go yo'self? Dere he is."
   "Well, Ah kin go, now," Ella countered.
   Big Sweet took a step forward that would put her right in .Ella's path in case she tried to cross the room. "Ah can't hear what you say for yo' damn teeth rattlin'. Come on!"
   Then the only thing that could have stopped the killing happened. The Quarters Boss stepped in the door with a .45 in his hand and another on his hip. Expect he had been eavesdropping as usual.
     The Quarters Boss looked all around and pointed at Ella "What tha hell you doin' in here wid weapons? You don 't belong on this job nohow. Git the hell out  here and that quick. This place is for people hat works on this job. Git! Somebody'll be in Barton jail in twenty minutes. "
   "You don't need tuh run her off, Cap'n," Big Sweet said "Ah can git her tuh go. jus' you stand back and gimme lief. She done stepped on mah starter and Ahm rearin' tuh go. If God'll send me uh pistol Ah'll send 'im uh man!'
   "You ain't gonna kill nobody right under mah nose," tt Quarters Boss snorted. "Gimme that knife you got dere, Big Sweet."
   "Naw suh! Nobody grits mab knife. Ah bought it for d' storm-buzzard over dere and Ah means tuh use it on her too. As long as uh mule go bareheaded she better not part her lips tuh me. Do Ah'll kill her, law or no law. Don't you touch me, white folks!"
   "Aw she ain't so bad!" Ella sneered as she wrung her hi towards the door. "She didn't kill Jesse James."
   "Git on 'way from here!" the Boss yelled behind her "Lessen yuh wanna make time in Barton jail. Git off the premises and that quick, Gimme that knife' " He took the knife and gave Ella a shove. She moved sullenly behind the crowd away from the door, mumbling threats. He followed and stayed outside until the car pulled off. Then he stuck his head back inside and said, "Now you behave yo'self, Sweet. Ah don't wanna hafta jail yuh."
   Soon as he was gone the mob got around Big Sweet wuz noble! Joe Willard told her, "You wuz uh whole woman and half uh man. You made dat cracker stand off a you.
   "Who wouldn't?" said Presley. "She got loaded muscles!You notice he don't tackle Big Sweet lak he do de rest round here. Dats cause she ain't got uh bit better sense then tuh make him kill her."
   "Dats right," Big Sweet admitted, "and de nex' time Joe tell his Mulberry woman tuh come here bulldozin' me, Ahm gointer beat 'im to death grabbin' at 'im. "
   Joe Willard affected supreme innocence. "Will you lissen at dis 'oman? Ah ain't sent fuh nobody. Y'all see Ah didn't never go where she wuz, didn't yuh? Come on Big Sweet, less go home. How 'bout uh li'l keerless love? Ah'm all ravalled out from de strain."
   Joe and Big Sweet went home together and that was that.
   When the quarters boss had gone, I saw Box-Car Daddy creeping back in the door. I didn't see him leave the place so I asked him where he had been.
   "Had to step off a li'l piece," he told me with an effort at nonchalance.
   "He always steps off whenever he see dat Quarters Boss, and he doing right, too," someohe said.
   "How come?" I asked. "Nobody else don't run."
   Everybody laughed but nobody told me a thing. But after a while Box-Car began to sing a new song and I liked the swing of it.
   "What's dat you singing, Box-Car?" I asked.
   "'Ah'm Gointer Loose dis Right-hand Shackle from 'Round my Leg. 'Dat's a chain-gang song. Thought everybody knowed dat."
   "Nope, never heard it. Ain't never been to de gang. How did you learn it?"
   "Working on de gang."
   "Whut you doin' on de gang, Box-Car? You look like a good boy, but a poor boy."
   "Oh, dey put me under arrest one day for vacancy in Bartow. When de judge found out Ah had a job of work. He took and searched me and when he found out Ah had a deck of cards on me, he charged me wid totin' concealed cards, and attempt to gamble, and gimme three months. Then dey made out another charge 'ginst me. 'Cused me of highway shufflin  and attempt to gamble. You know dese white folks sho  hates tuh turn a nigger loose, if ever dey git dey hands on 'im. An dis very quarters boss was Cap'n on de gang where Ah wuz. Me and him ain't never gointer set hawses . "
   So he went on singing:

   All day long, you heard me moan
   Don't you tell my Cap'n which way I gone
   Ah'm gointer lose dis right hand shackle from 'round my leg,
   You work me late, you work me soon
   Some time you work me by de light of de moon
   Ah'm gointer lose dis right hand shackle from 'round my leg.


   I learned several other songs. Thanks to James Presley and Slim; and Gene Oliver and his sister brought me many additional tales.
   But the very next pay-night when I went to a dance at the Pine Mill, Lucy tried to steal me. That is the local term for attack by stealth. Big Sweet saved me and urged me to stay  assuring me that she could always defend me, but I shivered at the thought of dying with a knife in my back, or having my face mutilated. At any rate, I had made a very fine and full collection on the Saw-Mill Camp, so I felt no regrets at shoving off.
   The last night at Loughman was very merry. We had a party at Mrs. Allen's. James Presley and Slim with their boxes; Joe Willard calling figures in his best mood. Because it was special occasion and because I was urged, I actually took a sip of low-wine and found out how very low it was. The band stopped and I was hilariously toted off to bed and the party moved to my bedroom. We had had a rain flood early in the afternoon and a medium size rattlesnake had come in out of the wet. I had thrown away a pile of worn out stockings and he was asleep upon them there in the corner by the washstand. The boys wanted to kill it, but I begged them not to hurt my lowly brother. He rattled away for a while, but when everybody got around the bed on the far end of the room and got quiet, he moved in the manner of an hour-hand to a crack where the floor and wall had separated, and popped out of sight.
   Cliffert told me the last Loughman story around midnight. "Zora, did yuh ever hear 'boutJack and de Devil buckin' aginst one 'nother to see which one was de strongest?"
   "Naw. Ah done heard a lot about de Devil and dat Jack, but not dat tale you know. Tell it."

   Jack and de Devil wuz settin' down under a tree one day arguin' 'bout who was de strongest. De Devil got tired of talkin' and went and picked up a mule. Jack went and picked up de same mule. De Devil run to a great big old oak tree and pulled it up by de roots. Jack grabbed holt of one jus' as big and pulled it up. De Devil broke a anchor cable. Jack took it and broke it agin.
So de Devil says, "Shucks! Dis ain't no sho nuff trial. Dis is chillun foolishness. Meet me out in dat hund'ed acre clearin' tomorrow mornin' at nine o'clock and we'll see who kin throw mah hammer de furtherest. is de strongest."
   Jack says, "Dat suits me."
   So nex' mawnin' de Devil wuz dere on time wid his hammer. It wuz bigger'n de white folks church house in Winter Park. A whole heap uh folks had done come out tuh see which one would win.
   Jack wuz late. He come gallopin' up on hawseback and reined in de hawse so short till he reared up his hind legs.
   Jack jumped off and says: "Wese all heah, le's go. Who goin' first?"
   De Devil tole 'im, "Me. Everybody stand back and gimme room."
   So he throwed de hammer and it went so high till it went clean outa sight. Devil tole 'em, "Iss Tuesday now. Y'all go home and come back Thursday mornin' at nine. It won't fall till then."
   Sho 'nuff de hammer fell on Thursday mornin' at nine o'clock and knocked out a hole big as Polk County.
   Dey lifted de hammer out de hole and levelled it and it wuz Jack's time to throw.
   Jack took his time and walked 'round de hammer to de handle and took holt of it and throwed his head back and looked up at de sky.
   "Look out, Rayfield! Move over, Gabriel! You better stand 'way back, Jesus'. Ah'm fixin' to throw." He meant Heaven.
   Devil run up to 'im, says, "Hold on dere a minute! Don't you throw mah damn hammer up dere! Ah left a whole lot uh mah tools up dere when dey put me out and Ah ain't got 'em back yet. Don't you throw mah hammer up dere!"


   So I left most of my things at Loughman and ran down in the phosphate country around Mulberry. Around Mulberry, Pierce and Lakeland, I collected a mass of children's tales and games. The company operating the mines at Pierce maintains very excellent living conditions in their quarters. The cottages are on clean, tree-lined streets. There is a good hospital and a nine-months school. They will not employ a boy under seventeen so that the parents are not led to put minors to work. There is a cheerful community center with a large green-covered table for crap games under a shady oak.
   We held a lying contest out under the trees in the night time, some sitting, some standing, everybody in a jolly mood. Mack C. Ford proved to be a mighty story teller before the Lord.
   I found out about creation from him. The tail of the porpoise is on crosswise and he explains the mystery of that.
   "Zora, did you ever see a porpoise?"
   "Yep. Many times."
   "Didja ever notice his tail?"
   "Don't b'lieve Ah did. He moves so fast till Ah don't remember much except seeing him turning somersault and shootin' up and down de Indian River like lightnin' thru de trees."

   Well, it's on crossways. Every other fish got his tail on straight but de porpoise. His is on crossways and bent down lak dis. (He bent down the fingers of his left hand sharply from the knuckles.)
De reason for dat is, God made de world and de sky and de birds and animals and de fishes. He finished off de stars and de trees.
   Den He made a gold track dear 'round de world and greased it, and called de sun to Him and says, "Now Sun, Ah done made everything but Time and Ah want you to make dat. Ah made dat gold track for you to run on and Ah want you to git on it and go 'round de world jus , as fas' as you kin stave it and de time it take you to go and come Ah in gointer call it 'day' and 'night.' "
   De porpoise was standin' 'round and heard God when He spoke to de sun. So he says, "B'lieve Ah'll take dat trip around de world myself."
   So de sun lit out and de porpoise took out. Him and him! 'Round de world-lickety split!
   So de porpoise beat de sun 'round de world by a hour and three minutes.
   When God seen dat He shook His head and says, "Unh, unh! Dis ain't gointer do. Ah never meant for nothin' to be faster than de sun."
   So He took out behind dat porpoise and run,him for three days and nights befo' He overtook him. But when he did ketch dat ole porpoise He grabbed him by de tail and snatched it off and set it back on crossways to slow him up. He can't beat de sun no mo' but he's de next fastest thing in de world.


   Everybody laughed one of those blow-out laughs, so Mack Ford said,
"Mah lyin' done got good tuh me, so Ah'm goint tell yuh how come de dawg hates de cat."

   De dog and de cat used to live next door to one 'nother and both of 'em loved ham. Every time they git a chance they'd buy a slice of ham.
   One time both of 'em got holt of a li'l extry change so de dog said to de cat, "Sis Cat, we both got a li'l money, and it would be fine if befo of us could buy a ham apiece. But neither one of us ain't got enough money to buy a whole ham by ourselves. Why don't we put our money together and buy us a ham together?"
   "Aw right, Brer Dawg. T'morrer bein' Sat'day, le's we go to town and git ourselves a ham."
   So de next day they went to town and bought de ham. They didn't have no convenience so they had to walk and tote it. De dawg toted it first and he said,as he walked up de road wid de ham over his shoulder, "Ours! Ours! Ours! Our ham!"
   After while it was de cat's time to tote de meat. She said, "'My ham, my ham, my ham." Dawg heard her but he didn't say nothin'.
   When de dawg took it agin he says, "Ours, ours, our ham!" Cat toted it and says, "My ham, my ham."
   Dawg says, "Sis Cat, how come you keep on sayin 'My ham' when you totes our meat. Ah always say, 'Our ham.' "
    De Cat didn't turn him no answer, but every time she toted de ham she'd say "My ham" and every time de dawg toted it he'd say "Ours."
   When they was almost home, de cat was carryin de ham and all of a sudden she sprung up a tree and set up there eatin' up de ham. De dawg did all he could to stop her, but he couldn't clim' and so he couldn't do nothin' but bark. But he tole de cat, "You up dat tree eatin' all de ham, and Ah can't git to you. But when you come down ahm gointer make you take dis Indian River for uh dusty road."


   "Didja ever pass off much time round de railroad camps, Zora?" asked Mr. Ford.
   "Ah been round dere some."
    "Ah wuz jus' fixin' tuh tell yuh if you ain't been there you missed some good singin', well ez some good lyin'. Ever hear dat song bout 'Gointer See my Longhaired Babe'?"'
   "Naw, but ah sho wisht ah had. Can you sing it?"
   "Sho can and then ahm gointer do it too, and that one 'bout, 'Oh Lulu, oh Gal."'
    "Ah know you want to hear some more stories, don't you? Ah know ah feels lak tellin' some."
   "Unh hunh," I agreed.
   "Don't you know dat's one word de Devil made up?"
   "Nope, Ah had never heard about it. It's a mighty useful word Ah know for lazy folks like me."
   "Yes, everybody says 'unh hunh' and Ah'll tell you why. He cleared his throat and continued:

   Ole devil looked around hell one day and seen his place was short of help so he thought he'd run up to Heben and kidnap some angels token things runnin' tell he got reinforcements from Miami.
Well, he slipped up on a great crowd of angels on de outskirts of Heben and stuffed a couple of thousand in his mouth, a few hundred under each arm and wrapped his tail 'round another thousand and darted off towards hell.
   When he was flyin' low over de earth lookin' for a place to land, a man looked up and seen de Devil and ast 'im, "Ole Devil, Ah see you got a load of angels. Is you goin' back for mo'?"
   Devil opened his mouth and tole 'im, "Yeah," and all li'l angels flew out of his mouf and went on back to Heben. While he was tryin' to ketch 'em he lost all de others. So he went back after another load.
   He was flyin' low agin and de same man seen him and says, "Ole Devil, Ah see you got another load uh angels."
   Devil nodded his head and said "unh hunh," and dat's why we say it today.


   "Dat's a fine story. Tell me some more." 
   "Ah'm gointer tell you all about Big Sixteen and High Walker and Bloody Bones but first Ah want to ask you a question."
   "All right, go ahead and ask me."
   "Zora, why do you think dese li'l slim women was put on earth?"
   "Couldn't tell you to save my life."
   "Well, dese slim ones was put here to beautify de world."
   " De big ones, musta been put here for de same reason."
   "Ah, naw, Zora. Ah don't agree wid you there."
   "Well then, what was they put here for?"
   "To show dese slim girls how far they kin stretch without bustin'."
   Everybody out under the trees laughed except Good Bread. She took in a whole lot of breath and added to herself. Then he rolled her eyes and said, "Mack Ford, Ah don't come in conversation at all. You jus' leave me out yo' mouf. And furthermo' Ah don't crack."
   "Nobody ain't called yo name, Good Bread, Ah wuz jus' assin' uh joke. "
   "Oh yes you wuz hintin' at me."
   "Aw, nobody ain't studyin' bout yuh. Jus' cause you done set round and growed ruffles round yo' hips nobody can't mention fat 'thout you makin' out they talkin' bout you. Ah wuzn't personatin'  yuh, but if de cap fit yuh wear it."
   "G'wan Mack, you knows dat a very little uh yo' sugar weetens mah tea. Don't git me started."
   "G'wan start something if dats de way yuh feel. You kin be topped. Now you tryin' to make somebody believe you so bad till you have tuh tote uh pistol tah bed tuh keep from gettin' in uh fight wid yo'self.? You got mo'poison in yuh than a snake dat wuz so poison tell he bit de railroad track and killed de train."
   "Don't y'all break dis lyin' contest up in no fight," Christopher Jenkins said.
   Mah Honey laughed scornfully. "Aw, tain't gointer be fight. Good Bread jus' feel lak bull woofin' uh little t'night. Her likker told her tuh pick uh fight but let Mack make break at her now, and there'll hafta be some good runnin done befo' dat fight come off. T'ain't nothin' tuh her. She know she ugly. She look lak de devil ground up in pieces."
   Good Bread jumped up with her pocket knife out. "Who y'all tryin tuh double teen? Trying tuh run de hawg over wrong one now. "
   "Aw set down Good Bread, and put dat froe back in pocket. Somebody's liable tuh take dat ole piece uh knife got and wear it out round yo' own neck."
   "Dats what Ah say," Christopher put in. "She always tryin' tuh loud talk somebody. Ah hates women wid men's overalls on anyhow."
   "Let her holler all she wants tuh," Ford added off-hand. "Dis is uh holler day. She kin whoop lak de Seaboard squall lak de A.C.L. Nobody don't keer, long as she don't put her hand on me. Sho as she do dat Ah'm gointer light her shuck for her. "
   Good Bread got to her feet importantly as if she was go to do something. For a fraction of a second I held my breath in fear. Nobody else paid it the least bit of mind. Good Br ead flounced on off.
   "Ah'm glad she gone," said Mah Honey. "She always pickin' fights and gittin beat. Dat 'oman hates peace and agreement." He looked after her a moment then yelled after "Hey, lady, you got all you' bust in de back!" Everybody laughed and Mah Honey went on. "She so mad now she'll stay away and let Mack tell Zora some lies. Gwan, Mack, you got de business."
   "Aw, Ah feel lak singin'," Mack Ford said.
   "Well nobody don't feel lak hearin' yuh, so g'wan tel dat lie on Big Sixteen. Ah never gits tired uh dat one."
   "You ruther hear uh story, Zora?"
   "Yeah, g'wan tell it. Dats jus' what Ah'm here for."
   "Well alright then:

   It was slavery time, Zora, when Big Sixteen was a man. They called 'im Sixteen  cause dat was de number of de shoe he wore. He was big and strong and Ole Massa looked to him to do everything.
One day Ole Massa said, "Big Sixteen, Ah b'lieve Ah want you to move dem sills Ah had hewed out down in de swamp.
   "I yassuh, Massa."
   Big Sixteen went down in de swamp and picked up dem 12 X 12's and brought 'em on up to de house and stack ,em. No one man ain't never toted a 12 X 12 befo' nor since.
   So Ole Massa said one day, "Go fetch in de mules. Ah want to look 'em over."
   Big Sixteen went on down to, de pasture and caught dem mules by de bridle but they was contrary and balky and he tore de bridles to pieces pullin' on 'em, so he picked one of 'em up under each arm and brought 'em up to Old Massa.
   He says, "Big Sixteen, if you kin tote a pair of balky mules, you kin do anything. You kin ketch de Devil."
    "Yassuh, Ah kin, if you git me a nine-pound hammer and a pick and shovel!"
   Ole Massa got Sixteen de things he ast for and tole 'im to go ahead and bring him de Devil.
   Big Sixteen went out in front of de house and went to diggin'. He was diggin' nearly a month befo' he got where he wanted. Then he took his hammer and went and knocked on de Devil's door. Devil answered de door hisself.
   "Who dat out dere?"
   "It's Big Sixteen."
   "What you want?"
   "Wanta have a word wid you for a minute."
   Soon as de Devil poked his head out de door, Sixteen him over de head wid dat hammer and picked 'im  up and carried 'im back to Old Massa.
   Ole Massa looked at de dead Devil and hollered, "Take dat ugly thing 'way from here, quick! Ah didn't think you'd, ketch de Devil sho 'nuff."
   So Sixteen picked up de Devil and throwed 'im back down de hole.
   Way after while, Big Sixteen died and went up to Heben. But Peter looked at him and tole 'im to g'wan 'way from dere. He was too powerful. He might git outa order and there wouldn't be nobody to handle 'im. But he had to, go somewhere so he went on to hell.
   Soon as he got to de gate de Devil's children was playin' in de yard and they seen 'im and run to de house, says, "Mama, mama! Dat man's out dere dat kilt papa!"
   So she called 'im in de house and shet de door. When Sixteen got dere she handed 'im a li'l piece of fire and said, "You ain't comin' in here. Here, take dis hot coal and g'wan off and start you a hell uh yo' own."
   So when you see a Jack O'Lantern in de woods at night you know it's Big Sixteen wid his piece of fire lookin' for a  place to go.


   "Give us somethin' to wet our goozles wid, and you kin git some lies, Zora," Jenkins prompted. I stood treats.
"Now g'wan, Mack, and lie some more," I said, and he remarked: " De mosquitoes mighty bad right now, but down there de East Coast they used to 'em. Know why we got so in skeeters heah and why we have so many storms?"
   "Naw, but Ah'd love to know," I answered eagerly.

   Well one Christmas time, God was goin' to Platka.  De devil was in de neighbnorhood too and seen God goin' long de big road, so he jumped behind a stump and hid. Not dat he was skeered uh God, but he wanted to git a Christmas present outa God but didn't want to give God nothin'.
So he squatted down behind dis stump till God came along and then he jumped up and said, "Christmas Gift!" 
   God just looked back over his shoulder and said, "Take de East Coast," and kept on walkin'. And dat's why we got  storms and skeeters--it's de Devil's property.


   I should mention it is a custom in the deep South for the children to go out Christmas morning "catching" people by saying "Christmas gift." The one who says it first gets a present from the other. The adults usually prepare for this by providing plenty of hard candy, nuts, coconuts, fruits and the like. They never try to catch the neighbors' children but let themselves be caught.
   "Ah know one mo' story on de devil. Reckon Ah'll tell it."
   "One day de Devil was walkin' along when he met Raw Head."
   "Who is Raw Head?" I interrupted to ask. "Ah been hearin' his name called all my life, but never did find out who he was.
   "Why, Zora! Ah thought everybody knowed who Raw Head was. Why he was a man dat was more'n a man. He was and strong like Big Sixteen and he was two-headed. He wed all de words dat Moses used to make. God give 'im power to bring de ten plagues and part de Red Sea. He had done seen de Smokey Mountain and de Burnin'Bush. And his head didn't have no hair on it, and it sweated blood all de time. Dat's why he was named Raw Head.  Then Mr. Ford old the following story:

   As Ah started to say, de Devil met Raw Head and they passed de time of day. Neither one wasn't keered of de other so they talked about de work they been doin' .
   Raw Head said he had done turnt a man into a ground puppy. Devil said he been havin' a good time breakin' up couples. All over de world de Devil had husbands and wives fightin' and partin'.
   Tol 'im says, "Devil, youse my cousin and Ah know you got mo' power than me, but Ah know one couple you can't part. They lives cross de big creek in my district, and Ah done everything Ah could but nothin' can't come between 'em."
   Devil says, "Dat's because de right one ain't tried yet. Ah kin part any two people. Jus' like Ah kin throw 'em together. You show 'em to me and Ah betcha half of hell Ah'll have 'em fightin' and partin' befo' Sunday."
   So de Devil went to where dis couple lived and took up round de house.
   He done everything he could but they wouldn't fight and they wouldn't part. Devil was real outdone. He had never had such a tussle since they throwed him outer Heben, and it was Friday. He seen he was 'bout to lose half of his kingdom and have to go back on his brag.
   He was 'bout to give up and go somewhere else dat night when he met a woman as barefooted as a yard-dog. They spoke and she says, "You don't look so good. You been down sick?"
   Devil told her, "Naw, but Ah been tryin' to break up dat lovin' couple up de road a piece there, but Ah can't do it."
   De woman says, "Aw shucks, is dat all? Tell you whut: Ah ain't never had a pair of shoes in my life and if you promise to give me a pair of shoes tonight Ah'll part 'em for you."
   "If you part 'em you get de shoes, and good ones at dat. But you got to do it first."
   "Don't you worry 'bout dat, you jus' meet me at dat sweet-gum tree on de edge of de swamp tomorrer evenin' and bring de shoes. "
   Next mornin she got up soon and went past de place to see where de man was workin' at. He was plowin' way off from de house. So she spoke to 'im nice and polite and went on up to de house where de wife was.
   De wife asted her in and give her a chair. She took her seat and begin to praise everything on de place. It was de prettiest house she ever seen. It was de bes' lookin' yard in dat part of the state. Dat was de finest dawg, she ever laid eyes on. Nobody never had no cat as good as dat one was.
   De wife thanked her for all her compliments and give her a pound of butter.
   De woman told her, "Everything you got is pretty, but youse de prettiest of all."
   De wife is crazy 'bout her husband and she can't stand to see him left out so she say, "My husband is prettier than Ah ever dared to be."
   "Oh, yeah, he's pretty too. Almost as pretty as you. De only thing dat spoil his looks is dat long flesh-mole on his neck. Now if dat was off he'd be de prettiest man in de world."
   De wife says, "Ah thinks he's already de prettiest man in de world, but if anything will make 'im mo' prettier still, Ah will too gladly do it."
   "Well, then, you better cut dat big ole mole offa his neck.
   "How kin Ah do dat? He skeered to cut it off. Say he might bleed to death."
   "Aw naw, he won't neither. He won't lose more'n a drop of blood if you cut it off right quick wid a sharp razor and then wipe cob-web on de place. It's a pity he won't let you do it 'cause it sho do spoil his looks."
   "If Ah knowed jus' how to do it, Ah sho would, 'cause Ah love him so and he is too pretty a man to be spoilt by a mole."
   "Why don't you take de razor to bed wid you tonight. Then when he gets to sleep, you chop it off right quick and fix it lak Ah told you. He'll thank you for it next day."
   De wife thanked de woman and give her a settin' of eggs and de woman told her good-bye and went on down to de field where de husband was plowin', and sidled up to him. "Good mornin' suh, you sho is a hard-workin' man."
   "Yes ma'am, Ah works hard but Ah loves to work so Ah kin do for my wife. She's all Ah got."
   "Yeah, and she sho got a man when she got you. 'Tain't many mens dat will hit from sun to sun for a woman."
   The man said , "Sho ain't. But ain't no man got no wife as good as mine.
   De woman spit on de ground and said, "It's good for a person's mind to be satisfied..But lovin' a person don't make them love you. And youse a pitiful case."
   "Why you say dat? Ain't I got de prettiest wife in de world. And what make it so cool, she's de sweetest wife God ever made."
   "All Ah got to say is 'Watch out.'
   "Watch out for what? My wife don't need no watchin'. She's pretty, it's true, but Ah don't have to watch her."
   "Somebody else done found out she pretty too and she's gointer gid rid of you. You better keep a close watch on her and when you go to bed tonight, make out you sleep and see if she don't try to cut yo' throat wid a razor! "
   "Git off dis place lyin' on my wife?"
   De woman hid in de bushes outside de fence row and watched. Sho nuff, pretty soon he knocked off and went on towards de house. When he got dere he searched all over de place to see if anybody was there besides his wife. He 't find nothin' but he watched everybody dat	pass de gate, and he didn't say nothin' to his wife.
   Dat night he got'in bed right after supper and laid there wid his eyes shut. De wife went and got his razor and slipped it to bed wid her. When she thought he was good and sleep she got de cob-web in one hand and de razor in de other and leaned over him to cut his mole off. He had de cover up 'round his neck and soon as she started to ease it back he opened his eyes and grabbed her and took de razor.
   "Unh, hunh! Ah was told you was goin' to cut my throat, but Ah didn't b'lieve it. From now on, we ain't no mo' husband and wife."
   He dressed and left her cryin' in de bed.
   De woman run on down to de sweet-gum tree to git her shoes. De Devil come brought 'em but he took and cut a long sapling and tied de shoe to de end of it and held 'em out to de woman and told her, "You parted 'em all right. Here's de shoes I promised you. But anybody dat kin create mo' disturbance than me is too dangerous. Ah don't want 'em round me. Here, take yo'.shoes." And soon as she took 'em he vanished.


   Horace Sharp said, "You lemme tell one now, Mack; you n talkin' all night. Tell yuh bout de farmer courtin' a girl."

   Well, the startin of it is a farmer was courtin' a girl and after he decided to marry her, they married and started home. So when he passed a nice farm he said to the girl: "You see dat nice farm over yonder?" S e said, "Yes." He said: "Well, all of these are mine." (Strokes his whiskers.)
Well, they traveled on further and they saw a herd of cattle and he said, "See dat nice herd of cattle?" She said. "Yes." "Well, all of these are mine." He smoothed his whiskers again.
   So he traveled on a piece further and come to a big plantation with a big nice house on it, and he said: "All of these are mine."
   So he traveled on further. He said, "See dat nice bunch of sheep?" She said, "Yes." "Well, all of these are mine."
   Traveled on further. Come across a nice bunch of hogs and he said: "See dat nice bunch of hogs?" "Yes." "Well, all of these are mine."
   So the last go 'round he got home and drove up to a dirty li'l shack and told her to get out and come in.
   She says, "You got all those nice houses and want me to come in there? I couldn't afford to come in here. Why you told me a story. I'm going back home."
   He says, "Why no, I didn't tell you a story. Everytime I showed you those things I said 'all of these were mine' and Ah wuz talkin' bout my whiskers." So the girl jumped out of the wagon and out for home she went.
   Goat fell down and skint his chin
   Great God A'mighty how de goat did grin.


   "You do pretty good, Horace," Mah Honey drawled, "but how come you want to stick in yo' bill when Mack is'talkin'? Dat story you told ain't doodly squat."
"Less see you tell one better'n dat one, then," Horace back.
   "'Oh Ah can't tell none worth listenin' tuh and you can't only difference in us is Ah know Ah can't and you don't. Dat lie you told is po' ez owl harkey. Gwan tell some mo Mack. Maybe somebody'll come long and help yuh after while."
   "Ah thought Horace's story wuz jus'  alright," Lessie Hudson said. "Can't eve'ybody talk de same."
   "Course it wuz!" Horace yelled, "it wuz alright wid everybody 'ceptin Mah Honey. He's a nigger wid white folks head-- let bim tell it. He make out he know every chink in China."
   "What you gointer do?" Mah Honey asked. "Ah kin tell yuh fo' yuh part yo' lips. You ain't gointer do nothin' but mildew.
   Somebody came along singing, "You Won't Do," and everybody looked round at one time like cows in a pasture.
    "Here come A.D. He kin lie good too. Hurry up, A.D. help Mack out!"
   "What Mack doin'?"
   "Lyin' up a breeze." "Awright, lemme git in dis shag-lag. Who lied last?"
   "Mack. Youse next."
   "Who all know what uh squinch owl is?" Frazier lit out.
   "Man, who you reckon it is, don't know what dat bad  thing is?" Christopher Jenkins asked. "Sign uh death ev time you hear one hollerin round yo' house. Ah shoots every one Ah kin find."
   "You kin stop 'em without shootin' 'em. Jus' tie uh looose' knot in uh string and every time he holler you pull de knot uh lil bit tighter. Dat chokes 'im. Keep on you choke 'im tuh death. Go out doors nex' mawnin and look ahround you'll find uh dead owl round dere somewhere," Said Mah Honey.
   "All you need tuh do is turn somethin' wrong side outuds, pull off yo' coat and turn it or else you kin turn uh pockaets."Carrie Jones added. "Me, Ah always pull off uh stockin' and turn it. Dat always drives es 'im off." 
    "Throw some salt on de lamp or stick uh rusty fork in de floor will do de same thing. In fact its de best of all; Ah mean salt in de lamp. Nothin' evil can't stand salt, let alone burnin' salt."
    "Lemme tell y'all how come we got squinch owls and then "all kin talk all yuh please bout how tuh kill 'em and drivese 'em de house top in de night time," said A.D.

   Yuh know Ole Marster had uh ole maid sister that never been married. You know how stringy white folks necks gits when dey gits ole. Well hers had done got that-a-way and more special cause she never been married.
Her name wuz Miss Pheenie and Ole Marster had uh daughter so there wuz young mens round de parlor and de porch. All in de sittin' chairs and in de hammock under de trees. So Miss Pheenie useter stand round and peer at 'em and grin lak uh possum-wishin' she could git courted and married.
   So one devilish young buck, he seen de feelin' in her so he 'gin tuh make manners wid her and last thing he done, he told her says, "If you 'go set up on de roof uh de house all night Ah'Il marry yuh in de mawnin'."
   It wuz uh bitter cold night. De wind searchin' lak de police. So she clambed up dere and set straddle of de highest part cause she couldn't stick nowhere's else. And she couldn't help but shake and shiver. And everytime de clock would strike de hour she'd say, C-o-o-o-l-d on de housetop, but uh young man in de mawnin." She kept dat up till de clock struck four, when she tumbled down, froze tuh death. But de very next night after they buried her, she took de shape of uh owl and wuz back dere shivverin' and 'cryin'. And dats how come us got squinch owls.


   "Dat sho waz uh true lie, A.D" Carrie said. "Ah sho is many de time dat Miss Pheenie had uh stayed off de uh dat house."
"Ah knows one 'bout uh witch woman," A.D. went on. "Ah'll tell dat one too, whilst Ah got mah wind."
   "Naw, Ah don't wanta hear bout no witches ridin' nobody," Baby-face Turl objected. "Ah been near rode to death in mah time. Can't bear tuh hear tell of it."
   "Well then Ah kin tell yuh bout dat talkin' mule. "

   Ole feller one time had uh mule. His name wuz Bill. Every mornin' de man go tuh ketch 'im he say, "Come 'round, Bill!"
So one mornin' he slept late, so he decided while he wuz drinkin' some coffee he'd send his son tuh ketch Ole Bill.
   Told 'im say, "Go down dere, boy, and bring me dat mule up here."
   Boy, he sich a fast Aleck, he grabbed de bridle and wen on down tuh de lot tuh ketch ole Bill.
   He say, "Come round, Bill!"
   De mule looked round at 'im. He told de mule,"'Tain't no use you rollin' yo' eyes at me. Pa want yuh dis mawnin'. Come on round and stick yo' head in dis bridle."
   Mule kept on lookin' at 'im and said, "Every mornin' it's 'Come round, Bill! Come round, Bill!' Don't hardly git no night rest befo' it's 'Come round, Bill!' "
   De boy throwed down dat bridle and flew back tuh de house and told his Pa, "Dat mule is talkin'."
   "Ah g'wan, boy, tellin' yo' lies! G'wan ketch dat mule.",
   "Naw suh, Pa, dat mule's done gone tuh talkin'. You hatta ketch dat mule yo' ownself. Ah ain't gwine."
   Ole man looked at ole lady and say, "See whut uh lie dat boy is tellin'?"
   So he gits out and goes on down after de mule hisself When he got down dere he hollered, "Come round, Bill!"
   Ole mule looked round and says, "Every mornin' it's come round Bill!"
   De old man had uh little fice dog useter foller 'im everywhere he go, so he lit out wid de lil fice right behind 'im. So he told de ole lady, "De boy ain't told much of uh lie. Dat mule is talkin'. Ah never heered uh mule talk befo'. "
   Lil fice say, "Me neither."
   De ole man got skeered agin. Right through de woods he went wid de fice right behind 'im. He nearly run hisself tuh death. He stopped and commenced blowin' and says, "Ah'm so tired Ah don't know whut tuh do."
   Lil dog run and set down in front of 'im and went to hasslin' and says, "Me too."
   Dat man is runnin' yet.


   Everybody agreed that the old man did right by running, some thought they could have bettered his record both for speed and distance.
   "What make you love tuh tell dem skeery lies, A.D.?" Clarence Beale asked.
   Lessie Lee snuggled up to Clarence with the eyes of Eve and said, "He skeers me too, Clarence. Less me and you hug together." Clarence grabbed her and wrapped her up tight.
   "Youse jus' all right, A.D. If you know another one skeerier than dat one, Ah'll give yuh five dollars tuh tell it and then Ah'm gointer git de job uh keepin' de boogers off Lessie Lee tuhnight. G'wan tell it."
   "Yeah man! " Christopher Jenkins chimed in. "All dese frail eels gittin' skittish. Tell some mo' A.D. Skeer Carrie right up on me! "
   So A.D. told another one.

   This wuz uh man. His name was High Walker. He walked into a boneyard with skull-heads and other bones. So he would call them, "Rise up bloody bones and shake Yo'self." And de bones would rise up and come together, and shake theirselves and part and lay back down. Then he would say to hisself, "High Walker," and de bones would say"Be walkin'."
   When he'd git off a little way he'd look back over his shoulder and shake hisself and say, "High Walker and bloody bones," and de bones would shake theirselves. Therefore he knowed he had power.
   So uh man sold hisself to de high chief devil. He give 'im his whole soul and body tuh do ez he pleased wid it. He went out in uh drift uh woods and laid down flat on his back beyond all dese skull heads and bloody bones and said, "Go 'way Lawd, and come here Devil and do as you please wid me. Cause Ah want tuh do everything in de world dats wrong and never do nothing right."
   And he dried up and died away on doin' wrong. His meat all left his bones and de bones all wuz separated.
   And at dat time High Walker walked upon his skull head and kicked and kicked it on ahead of him a many and a many times and said tuh it, "Rise up and shake yo'self. High Walker is here,."
   Ole skull head wouldn't say nothin'. He looked back over his shoulder cause he heard some noises behind him and said, "Bloody bones you won't say nothin' yet. Rise tuh de power in de flesh."
   Den de skull head said, "My mouf brought me here and if you don't mind, you'n will bring you here."
   High Walker went on back to his white folks and told de white man dat a dry skull head wuz talkin' in de drift today. White man say he didn't believe it.
   "Well, if you don't believe it, come go wid me and Ah'll prove it. And if it don't speak, you kin chop mah head off right where it at."
   So de white man and High Walker went back in de drift tuh find dis ole skull head. So when he walked up tuh it, he begin tuh kick and kick de ole skull head, but it wouldn't say nothin'. High Walker looked at de white man and seen 'im whettin' his knife. Whettin' it hard and de sound of it said rick-de-rick, rick-de-rick, rick-de-rick! So High Walker kicked and kicked dat ole skull head and called it many and many uh time, but it never said nothin'. So de white man cut off High Walker's head.
   And de ole dry skull head said, "See dat now! Ah told you dat mouf brought me here and if you didn't mind out it'd bring you here."
   So de bloody bones riz up and shook they selves seben times and de white man got skeered and said, "What you mean by dis?"
   De bloody bones say, "We got High Walker and we all bloody bones now in de drift together."


   The next day was Thursday and I got a letter from Big Sweet saying I must be back at Loughman by Saturday because that was pay night and Thelma and Cliffert were getting married and big doings would be going on.
   Friday I arrived in Loughman. Thelma and Cliffert got married on Saturday and everybody that wasn't mad put out to give them a big time.
   The biggest crowd was over at the Pine Mill where Jim Presley was playing so I wanted to go there. Big Sweet didn't want to go there much. At least that is what she told everybody, but she told me to go on. She might be over later. She gave me some advice about looking out for myself.
   "Don't let nobody bring yuh nothin' tuh eat and drink, and don't let' m send it neither. They liable tuh put uh spider in yo' dumplin'. Don't let nobody git yuh intuh no fuss, cause you can't do dis kind uh fightin'. You don't know no better'n tuh go face tuh face tuh fight. Lucy and dem ain't gointer fight nobody lak dat. They think it make 'em look big tuh cut yuh. Ah done went tuh her and put mah foot up on her door step and told her dat if she tetch yuh Ah'll gently chain-gang fuh her, but she don't aim tuh lemme ketch her. She mean tuh slip up on yuh sometime and hit yuh uh back hand lick wid her knife and turn her hand over right quick and hit yuh forward wid it and pull it down. Then she aims tuh run cross back yard and jump fences so fast till me and de law neither can't find her."
   "Well, Big Sweet, if it's like dat, Ah speck Ah better not go out unless you be wid me," I told her.
   "Oh yeah, you go on. You come here tuh see and lissen and Ah means fuh yuh tuh do it. Jus' watch out. Ah could give yuh uh knife tuh tote but dat wouldn't do you no good. You don' know how tuh handle it. Ah got two round here. One  good one Ah got down in Tampa, and one ole froe. But y jus' gwan over dere and mind what Ah tell yuh. Ah'm liable tuh be dere tuhreckly mahself. And don't git biggity nobody and let yuh head start more than yo' rump kin stand."
   I promised sincerely and took Cliffert and Thelma in the car with me to the Pine Mill.
   A new man had come from Groveland, where another sawmill was located, and he was standing behind Jim Presly and Slim, singing new songs, and I was so glad that I'd come. It didn't take me long to learn some new ones and I forgot all about Lucy.
   Way after midnight Big Sweet came in. The place was hot by then. Everything was done got loud. The music, the dancing, the laughing, and nobody could say a thing even over the card games unless they made it sound something like singing. Heard one woman playing Coon Can sing out:

   Give mah man mah money, tuh play Coon Can
   He lost all mah money but he played his hand.

   In a little while I heard her again:

   Befo' Ah'll lose mah rider's change
   Ah'll spread short deuces and tab de game.

   Big Sweet nodded me over in a corner and said, "Ah done strowed it over on de other side dat Ah'm gone home tuh bed. Jus' wanta see whut might come off."
   "Lucy ain't been here atall," I told her. "Believe she skeered you might kill her sho 'nuff."
   "She know Ah will lessen she kill me first. Ah hates uh two-faced heifer lak her. And Ah ain't skeered tuh see Mah Jesus neither cause de Bible say God loves uh plain sinner and he's married tuh de backslider. Ah got jus' as good uh chance Heben as anybody else. So have yo' correct amount uh fun. Ah'm settin' right over dere in dat skin game. "
   Heard somebody at the Florida Flip game say, "Ah'm gone -- jus' lak uh turkey through de corn. Deal!"
   Heard somebody else in the game say, "Beggin'" and the dealer told him, "Eat acorns."
   Heard Blue Baby ask Box-Car, "Who is dat new nigger ver dere by de refreshments? God Amighty, ugly got de mug him wid four wheel brakes."
   "He's de new skitter man (A panther had killed the other one a week earlier). He sho' ain't nobody's pretty 'aby. Bet he have tuh slip up on de dipper tuh git uh drinkh water. B'lieve Ah'll holler at 'im. 'Hey Ugly, who made you? Don't start tuh lyin' on God now."
   A general laugh followed this. Box-Car, a little proud of his crack, grabbed Blue Baby. "Come, on less go over dere and marry Cliff and Thelma all over agin. Hey Cliff, you and Thelma git up on de floor and raise yo' right hand. Y'all ain't en hitched right till Box-Car git thew widja. " The couple bashfully stood up.
   "Join hands. Alright Cliff, Ah'm de pr eacher Here's yo' woman, here's de ring, Here's de banana, here's de skin Now you married, go--
   A huge burst of laughter drowned out Box Car's voice andw hen the laugh dieand when t, I could hear Nunkie, "reading the deck" where the flip game used to be. Calling the names of the cards and laying them down rhythmically and dramatically he read: 

   Ace means the first time that met you,
   Deuce means there was nobody there but us two,
   Trey means the third party, Charlie was his name,
   Four spot means the fourth time you tried dat same ole game,
   Five spot is five years you played me for a clown,
   Six spot, six feet, of earth when de deal goes down,
   Now, Ah'm holdin' de seben spot for each day in de week,
   Eight spot, eight hours you sheba-ed wid yo' sheik,
   Nine spot means nine hours Ah work hard every day,
   Ten spot de tenth of every month Ah brought you home mah pay,
   De Jack is Three Card Charlie who I played me for a goat,
   De Queen, dat s you, pretty mama, also tryin' tuh cut mah throat,
   De King, dat hot papa Nunkie, and he's gointer wear de crown
   So be keerful y'all ain't broke when de deal goes down.


   Nunkie looked around belligerently on the last sentence and pulled at Big Sweet and Joe Willard pumped up the music,
   "Play some music,Jim, y'all over dere, and less dance some mo'. Nunkie wants tuh pick uh fight with Who Flung.	 Play us uh slow drag. Come on Big Sweet, less me and you have uh schronchuns dance."
   "Dance wid Zora, honey, Ah don't choose tuh move from where Ah'm at. Ah ain't mad wid nobody, baby, jus' wanta' set and look on uh while yet."
   Heard the new singing man climbing up on
   Tell me, tell me where de blood red river ru-u-un
    Oh tell me where de blood red river run
   From mah back door, straight to de risin' sun.
   Heard Slim's bass strings under the singing throbbing like all Africa and Jim Presley's melody crying like repentance as four or five couples took the floor. Doing the slow drag, the schronch. Joe Willard doing a traveling buck and towards where I stood against the wall facing the open door.
   Just about that time Lucy hopped up in the doorway an open knife in her hands. She saw me first thing. Maybe she had been outside peeping a long time and there I was leaning against the wall right close to Slim. One door in the place and Lucy standing in it.
"Stop dat music," she yelled without moving. "Don't vip another vop till Ah say so! Ah means tuh turn dis place out now. Ah got de law in mah mouf."
   So she started walking hippily straight at me. She knew I couldn't get out easily because she had me barred and she knew not many people will risk running into a knife blade to stop a fight. So she didn't have to run. I didn't move but I was running in my skin. I could hear the blade already crying in flesh. I was sick and weak. But a flash from the corner out ten feet off and Lucy had something else to think about besides me. Big Sweet was flying at her with an open blade and it was Lucy's time to try to make it to the door. Big Swee kicked her somewhere about the knees and she fell. A doubled  razor flew thru the air very close to Big Sweet's head. Crip, the new skitter man, had hurled it. It whizzed past Big Sweet and stuck in the wall; then Joe Willard went for Crip. Presley punched me violently and said, "Run you chile! In and ride! Dis is gointer be uh nasty ditch. Lucy been feedin' Crip under rations tuh git him tuh help her. Run clean dis job! Some uh dese folks goin' tuh judgment and some n' tuh jail. Come on, less run!"
    Slim stuck out the guitar to keep two struggling men from blocking my way. Lucy was screaming. Crip had hold of Big Sweet's clothes in the back and Joe was slugging him loose. Curses, oaths, cries and the whole place was in motion. Blood on the floor. I fell out of the door over a man lying on steps, who either fell himself trying to run or got knocked down. I don't know. I was in the car in a second and in high too quick. Jim and Slim helped me throw my bags into the the car and I saw the sun rising as I approached Crescent City.