A long time ago, when Jack was growin up, his daddy give him a brand new
shotgun for Christmas. Obviously, Jack was as proud as a peacock over this new
gift. He wanted to show his daddy just how proud he was by going out and
gettin a whole mess of game on his first huntin trip. So, bright and early the
very next morning, Jack jumped out of bed, threw on his overalls, boots, and
jacket and flew out the door before breakfast. He got up so quick he even beat
the crack of dawn.

As the sun slowly yawned out over the horizon, Jack's shadow was beginning to
cast out over Bear Creek. He figured that most of the small game around these
here parts would be gettin themselves a drink, right smart early in the
morning. Well it wasn't long before Jack's logic paid off.

Just 40 feet ahead of where Jack stood sat two rabbits, one on each side of a
large boulder. Sittin right purty on top of that boulder was a flat rock with
a large gray squirrel eatin a hickory nut. Jack looked and calculated a bit.
He raised his gun up under his chin and aimed. Boooom. One shot was all it
took.

Jack had hit that flat rock smack dab in the middle and broke it in half
exactly under where that big old grey squirrel had been perched. Of course it
instantly killed the squirrel. The flat rock's two broken pieces fell
simultaneaously on each side of the boulder killing the two rabbits, in a
moments notice.

The kick from the double barrel shotgun was so strong that it knocked Jack
clean out into the middle of the creek. It nearly took Jack the better part of
30 minutes to climb out of that creek. Reason being, his overalls had gotten
so full of bass that he could barely climb up the bank.

Finally, when it was able to get up the bank and out of the water his dad-
burned butten come flyin off them overalls due to the overload of fish they
contained. That button had such force that it flew at a whiz-bang velocity
like a rocket into the woods and just happened to hit a twelve point buck
running from all this excitement. When this deadly button hit him in mid-
stride his momentum carried him nearly 60 feet before he landed and hit his
antlers on another rock. This caused a portion of the antlers to become a
fragmented projectile that flew into the next pasture killing the neighbors
prize bull.

All that there was left to do now was for Jack to gather up everything to
carry home. The only problem was; how in the world was he going to carry 24
largemouth bass, 1 large grey squirrel, 2 fat rabbits, 1 very large slightly
damaged deer, and a 2000 lb. prize bull home by himself? Now that would really
be a story.