Friends, sit down and let me tell you a little story...

Sammy Buckshaw once lived in a little two room house on the edge of town. Now
Sammy wasn't well off. All he had in this world was his little two room house
and the piece of land it sat on. The house was old and weathered, as was
Sammy. Together they survived on the hillside on the outskirts of Hapville, a
small country town.

For food and his livelihood, Sammy raised a garden which was his pride and
joy. The garden sat beside the house facing the road. A large oak tree covered
the yard in front of his home, which made cool shade in the heat of the
summertime. Sammy would sit in the cool shade sipping ice tea and look out at
his garden and breath in the coolness of the greenery. The perfectly straight
rows filled with sweet-corn, beans, tomatoes, and his favorite sweet potatoes.
This sight always made his heart glad.

Early one morning Sammy was in his favorite place on earth, working the rows
between his sweet potatoes when the man came up into his driveway, which was
between the house and the garden. He drove up in a large new work truck with
writing on the side. The man introduced himself and said he was from some
company which made roads. Sammy looked at the man while he talked and saw
someone that was proud of his work but did not like delivering bad news. As
the man's lips moved, Sammy saw the perspiration on the upper lip and thought
of the dew on the sweet potatoes and how different the two were.

The man told Sammy that they were building a new outer loop around Hapville
and that it was planned to go straight through Sammy's garden. The man said
that the town had decided since Sammy had such a marvelous garden, that they
would not start construction on this section until he had harvested the
garden, especially the sweet potatoes. The man scratched his head as he said
all this. The man looked at Sammy but he couldn't see Sammy's heart. He
couldn't see the life of Sammy and all his daily fulfillment which came from
the garden and sweet potatoes. Sammy's heart was heavy with the news as the
man got back in his shiny new truck with writing on the side, and left in a
cloud of dust.

The dust swirled around and settled on the sweet-corn like Sammy's hope for a
new tomorrow. He sat down between his sweet potatoes and thought how this
would all soon end. He wished to himself that the sweet potatoes would never
be harvested and that the man had never came into his life. He sat and thought
of his mother's garden and how she always had told him that life wasn't worth
living if ya didn't have a garden to tend. Sammy looke out at the crops
through his tear filled eyes. His tears fell gently on the large green sweet
potato leaves as the sun grew higher in the sky.

That night Sammy slept a fitfull sleep. He dreamed of the man and the truck.
He dreamed of terrible machines that would kill his garden and take away his
life. He tossed and turned until he drempt of the beautiful green sweet
potatoes. He dreamed of their large orange round bounty that made his favorite
dessert, sweet potato pie. Sammy dreamed of sweet-potato pie and slept like a
baby the rest of the night. The next morning Sammy got up and fixed some
coffee. As he looked out the kitchen window he noticed there had been a frost
during the night. His heart quickened. This was well past and before frost
season and a frost this time of year would certainly end the garden. He rushed
out the door and over to the garden. He looked at the plants and reached down
to touch the leaf of a sweet potato plant. When he touched the white
frostiness on the leaf, it crumbled and fell off the plant. The crumbling
didn't stop there, it spread out over all the garden in a wave of warmth. The
frost fell away from the leaves reveiling the greenery he had known before,
except on the sweet potatoes. Unlike all the other plants, they did not look
the same anymore. Their leaves were now a dark blue-green.